Files\\SKD_round1\\DEFE 24 1214\\IMG_2143_DEFE_24_1214 - § 2 references coded [ 100.00% Coverage]
Reference 1 - 50.00% Coverage
Page 1 : (0,0) - (712,986)
Reference 2 - 50.00% Coverage
ANNEX A 
(iii) Raids and Searches -These were a prolific source of information, both in towns and in the country. They not only enabled genuine informers to be seen in 
safety but gave opportunities for interrogation of families of men on the run, for the seizure of documents and for chance discoveries. Most raids were the result of information or reconnaissance and were made with a definite object. Some suspected houses, however, were raided frequently. The most important points connected with raids and searches were as follows :- 
As a general principle it was desirable to make a previous reconnaissance and if a 
house in a town was likely to lead to important results to raid another and, as far as possible, similar house in the same street so as to ascertain the type of building. Not only was previous reconnaissance desirable but a clear and definite plan for searching and guarding during the search was essential. In important raids personal and thorough searches should be made of every inmate of a house, unless they were so numerous, as in workhouses and lunatic asylums, that it was inconvenient if not impossible. Documents and weapons were hidden in most unexpected places, and in many instances were overlooked owing to sheer bluff. It was therefore necessary that those who conducted a search should have studied beforehand all available notes on the various types of hiding places. As has been mentioned, one of the important results of constant raids and searches 
was that no methodical and systematic filing or complete records could be kept in any Sinn Fein and I.R.A. office. No I.R.A. officer could feel safe at any time and enormous numbers were compelled to go " on the run." This in the case of a winter campaign might have had very considerable results and, in any case, compelled the I.R.A. to work in parties of some size and thus exposed them to chance of decisive defeat and heavy casualties. Sudden hold-ups and searches in the streets prevented the habitual carrying of arms and to a certain extent prevented isolated efforts by small bodies of hooligans. 
This subject cannot be dismissed without some reference to plain clothes work 
So long as the status of the I.R.A. as belligerents was not recognised and so long as they were no distinguishing uniform, it was inevitable that part at least of the work of the Crown Forces had to be done in plain clothes. A daylight raid, for instance, by a party in uniform was signalled long before the party had arrived on the scene of action. On the other hand a small party in one or two Ford cars could and often did arrive unexpectedly, secured their man and left before anyone had realised what had happened. Moreover a Ford car, with hood up, containing four or five men in mufti was a difficult proposition to attack, for any would-be rescuers were as likely to shoot their friend as their enemies. 
Such raids were particularly effective when the names of men employed by a 
firm were wanted or a foreman was to be examined. Pay rolls could be scrutinised without giving any clue as to the objective of the raiders who, as often as not, were believed to be a party of I.R.A. Such plain clothes raids were greatly disliked by the I.R.A. which is a strong argument in their favour ; but it was of no use to have some members of a party in mufti and some in uniform. These small raids proved on innumerable occasions the value of surprise and boldness, provided the party worked on a definite and well-thought-out plan. 
Big buildings such as workhouses and lunatic asylums were very difficult to. 
" comb-out." It was preferable to carry out a raid against them on a smallscale, but in that case it was necessary for every member of the party to have local knowledge and for the party to work on a plan based on information, which could generally be obtained from some discontented member of a large staff. 
(iv) Imterrogation.-The best information, i.e., that on which the most successfu1 
operations, where the heaviest loss was inflicted on the I.R.A., were based, was that given by I.R.A. deserters and prisoners under interrogation. 
Files\\SKD_round1\\DEFE 24 1214\\IMG_2150_DEFE_24_1214 - § 2 references coded [ 100.00% Coverage]
Reference 1 - 50.00% Coverage
Page 1 : (0,0) - (598,798)
Reference 2 - 50.00% Coverage
S.*APPENDXM.R. - For Oflaal Use only. 
ORDERS FOR fNT’ItNME1NT CAMPS IN IRR.AND. This document Is the property of H.B.M. Govrornmont. 
Adiractly, to h Preass or any person not hol:ing an official position in His Majes:y’s Servico. Issued by Doputy Adjutant-Gonerari Branch og the Staf,.Genorl Hoadquartors, Ireland. April, 1921. 
C0NTJETS. I L In:ernmrent Camo 5. Internau-m -ncol - St~d 
;:. k*’arjum:. o la1N.’i:: W dua I Ga:.osA . r 
E. Reception of Intornoa a« Closo Co;irrnent 
7. Simm. Orderifor Insurueos’ Camp S. Serjeant Cool 
9. Duiie of Oc-nsor Oflicors 
10.- S:nding Ordor for Internoos 11. Daily LIeport by O.C. nard 12. Sinuding Orders for O.C. Guard 13. Gnidu for compiling Orders for N.O.O. i/c Sentry Post 1. GnidoforcorapilingOrdersforSery Posts 
135. Stmding Orders for Sentry over Arms 16. 1re Orders (Ordinary 
Tnas /y1.r 
Cagyd, Ddtietdion -arracks" andTucanporarly Lock-ups, wiwre civilians in. ars are ta.wait.ina deiioa ef their case; but slightvaxriairnes of Ukos. ondrs to mioti lcal cauditions vnmy Leuncliond. by SenedtQ Oficr CCommaundin, Divisions. Yi4,,-erand other ccviliru in a nslod awaiting trial aro not to 
aro to be carried out in all Intermnent Camps and will a?sr aipply iu T.ant prary me a/Jywd or e):forced labup.r, 
Cels. 1aswges, Cook-Iouse, Latrins, Bathrowms, &a., cdean. Ina 1fcoking J adlt. washi4y their own clothes. 
but irAmy mos to be m-poyeinknteping hir Hu aeund interior of ti Cay1 INTnnnner:T CAMP STAY. . . . .3. Organiation.-The t1nral 
ltornes aIru issued whsn’nocssar-y. 2. 
discipline amongst the internees is laid down in " Sa:ding Companics.-Each linn of hnl is uinder 
ordon for fhn ora::ixation, administration, tad maimenance of Orders for Internees." Routini Ordurr for 
stbtaltoru itcar, who is thfi O.C. Coy. He 
as.wistod by a serjant. It i.s the dnty of O.C. Companies to see that " Standi:g and Rontine Orderr for Inirna.aro strictly coilicl 
is with. Oa.C. Corpanes . wi1 Awork throngh Signuavres to postal ncl moey orders and cash adonius, issue of -pae~r vorchere. ic., ouul all 
be cone at rhis particular hour, othe wiso Company Commanders’ time will bu mSteb t by porpetual visits to theo ago. 3. Formaion of Compania.-Compar.ies ar comprised of tho nudormentionod huis:---For 
guidance.) ,. ’ . . ’ 
" A" Company Huto.% ;to S inousivo No. 3 Cape .; 
- " 
"C " . 
"R" 
" 1?" " 
do. .do. 
a ". D "L C). do.. 
" " 
do. do. 
do 
21 to 29 X to 20 .l to c 1 to 9 .10 to .18 to 28 
20 to as . . 
do. do. do. do. d. do. do. 
do. 11n. 
do. 
No. 2 Calge.’ do. 
do. do. :Orrr," fInterneca 
Lino Captains and INt, Londr :s far as possibln. Overnight they will issno a list of all iniu:to, whomn they wish to soo next day,’to tho Lino Capain, and it will be the latter’s duty to seotiUat Lth rternces ram oilare ,resent as the hour mentinned. 
or zdaent ioarracks, - oTrS.-.The info:ation given in this pamphlo is not to be ommrnicated, either dirootly or 
