J_Emergency-Policy	defeat - anduiiitc to defoa -those v io.ent non 1;ho scek 
to divide uo.

J_Emergency-Policy	If in fact the 
category C. internees are all about equal from the point of view of danger to the public safety, then the moment some of them are released the continued detention of the others in category C. is called into question. 
This 
seems to mean that the matter will have to be dealt with on a strictly individual basis, and it also means that only general conditions can be applied to the continued rundown of internment.
J_Emergency-Policy	If that is agreed, it is important 
not to lose sight of the fact that neither releases from internment nor internment orders themselves are pure acts of policy. 
If an internment order depends on the 
individual concerned being a danger to public security, then his release must imply that that danger is no longer present. 
some new situation arises, ie that he himself re-engages in illegal activity or that the general situation has deteriorated.

J_Misc	THE POLICE AND THE ARMY ARE FIRM IN THE VIEW THAT THE INTELLIGENCE THEY ARE NOW REAPING FROM THE INTERNMENT OPERATION MUST BE EXPLOITED TO THE FULL, AND USED IN A CONTINUING EFFORT TO ROLL UP THE IRA. AT THE LAST TWO DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS MEETINGS GREAT STRESS HAS BEEN LAID ON THE FOOLISHNESS OF ALLOWING THE ARREST RATE TO BE DETERMINED BY THE ACCOMMODATION AVAILABLE.
J_Terrorism	But the Government 
wishes to make clear at once that these measures will not in any way be directed against the holding of opinions, but only against the use of violence and terror to force those opinions on law
J_Emergency-Policy	Meantime, the Government reaffirms its determination to 
improve the security situation in Northern Ireland and to deal with terrorists, including those who, for the reasons indicated earlier, cannot easily be dealt with through the normal processes of the criminal law. 
Pending the report of the commission and of 
the subsequent legislation on it, the Government therefore proposes at an early date to introduce interim legislation under the Special Powers Act to set up a special tribunal to deal with persons accused of terrorist activities by means of a procedure which will preserve the essentials of natural justice, but which will be matched to the special conditions which unfortunately obtain in Northern Ireland. 
This tribunal will be asked to 
consider cases referred to it by the Secretary of State (which will include cases of those presently in internment), to determine the nature of their involvement in terrorist activities, and either to order release or to impose a definite period of detention.
J_Political-Strategic	This may be the most difficult part of the discussion, since it 
represente the issue where Mr. Faulkner can least afford to give ground but Mr. Lynch may be most concerned to extract some concession as his price for supporting the Horne Secretary’s discussions (if he is otherwise prepared to do so).
J_Legal_Procedure	Back this up with an undertaking that the appeals procedure (due to 
begin on Saturday) will be conducted as rapidly as possible and will embrace all internees, whether they appeal or not.
J_Denial	Then, try to get Mr. Faulkner to justify the way in which internment 
has been carried out and the treatment which has been given to the internees. (Some reference to the conditions at Long Kesh; the Red Cross inspection; the derogation under the European Convention on Human Rights, etc

J_Misc	It will become clear(once the Bill is passed) that detention procedures are temporary and that, given an end to the appalling conditions which make them necessary, they will be allowed to lapse. H.M. Government have no intention of keeping these provisions in force a moment longer than is necessary.
J_Misc	The Government expressed regret that such an order should be necessary in any part of the United Kingdom. The Order gives effect to the Government's decision to end internment and detention by the Executive and provides for the establishment of Commissions.
J_Development-Unity	Neither will be possible in a climate of terrorism and 
violence. The outrages to which we have been subjected now threaten our economic life and create every day deeper divisions and antagonism within our community. These, indeed, are the clear objects of those who carry then out.
J_Development-Unity	If Northern Ireland is to survive and prosper, two things 
are essential. We must sustain a continuing programme of economic and social development, and we must find the means to create a more united society here 
- one in which all men of good will, hoever divergent their legitimate political views, 
may participate to the full. These things are, and will continue to be, the aims of our policy.

J_Terrorism	ALL THE INTERNEES ARE MEMBERS OF THE IRA: CONSEQUENTLY THERE IS NO POOL OF INTERNEES WHO ARE MERELY POLITICAL ACTIVISTS. THERE IS AN INHERENT RISK THAT ANY INTERNEE RELEASED AS A POLITICAL GESTURE WILL RETURN TO HIS PREVIOUS ACTIVITIES IN NORTHERN IRELAND, REPAIRING THE SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE WHICH HAS BEEN INFLICTED ON BOTH FACTIONS OF THE IRA SINCE 9 AUG 71.
J_Misc	It would be directed as necessary
J_Legal_Procedure	I AM SENDING YOU THIS MESSAGE TO LET YOU KNOW THAT THE PRIME MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND WILL VERY SHORTLY BE ANNOUNCING THAT, IN THE LIGHT OF THE LATEST ASSESSMENT OF THE SECURITY SITUATION IN NORTHERN IRELAND AND ALL OTHER RELEVANT FACTORS,, AND AFTER CONSULTATION WITH THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT, THE NORTHERN IRELAND GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED TO ACTIVATE ITS POWERS OF INTERNMENT.
J_Misc	(iii) A note on the cumulative 
successes achieved by interrogation in the postinternment phase in Northern Ireland.
J_Misc	There were fears that the morale of the Special Branch might suffer, which would have serious consequences since their continued cooperation was essential.

J_Misc	It was necessary to walk a tight rope between getting the necessary intelligence and not alienating moderate Catholic opinion.

J_Terrorism	The Chief Constable suggested that if it happened that Protestant extremists suspected of murder or other terrorist crime had to be let go after interrogation by the CID they should be re-arrested under Regulation 11 and interrogated by the Special Branch.

J_Terrorism	In principle there is nothing new in this, since the Secretary of State has always said that he would be prepared to detain some Protestant extremists if a proper case were made out.

J_Terrorism	and as not in itself constituting any formal change of arrest policy, since any interim custody orders would be incidental to action taken 
The Secretary of State evidently regarded this decision as a first step against 
suspected murderers and terrorists.

J_Terrorism	If the measures which Her Majesty’s Government have taken lead, 
as is hopedthey will, to a reduction in terrorist activity, it will be possible to consider further releases; but this must of course depend on a clearly established improvement in the security situation.
J_Terrorism	Other terrorists (as specified from time to time by the Secretary of State) who are known, on the strength of reliable intelligence to be an exceptionally serious threat to security, and for whom, in the absence of evidence which could form the basis of a criminal charge, a strong case could be made for an Interim Custody Order."
J_Terrorism	the commissioner must enquire into any case referred to him to see whether the person has been concerned in terrorism, and, if so, whether his detention is necessary for the protection of the public
J_Legal_Procedure	Where these procedures contain departures from the normal judicial process 
the commissioners’ inquiries are in private, 
for example, and the person who is the subject of the enquiry may be excluded from parts of it) these are necessary because, as the Commission reported, witnesses will not give evidence in the ordinary courts.

J_Legal_Procedure	a person detained by order of a commissioner has a right of appeal to an independent tribunal

J_Legal_Procedure	no-one may be detained for more than 28 days without his case being referred for adjudication to an independent, legally-qualified commissioner

J_Denial	While he reaffirmed the constitutional position of Northern Ireland as part of the United Kingdom, he made a point of denying emphatically that internment was aimed at repressing the Roman Catholic community and said that he would continue to consider still further measures which would give the parliamentary Opposition greater participation in the running of Northern Ireland.
J_Development-Unity	If Northern Ireland is to survive and prosper, two things 
are essential. We must sustain a continuing programme of economic and soial development, and we must find the means to create a more united society here 
- one in which all men of 
good will, however divergent their legitimato political views may participate to the full. These things are, and will continue to be, the aims of our policy.

