Positive	It will have to be argued that there is a limit to the extent to which any Government is prepared to hand over the investigation of complaints to outside agencies or to demonstrate lack of confidence in the good faith of the properly constituted civil authorites.
Positive	7. Responsibility of the "Officer in Charge". The "Officer in Charge of 
the place of detention" will be appointed from the Prison Service and will as soon as possible be provided with the necessary staff from the Prison Service or RUC to interpret and implement within be place of detention the conditions of detention specified by the Civil Authority.
Positive	’ MAGILLIGAN, BALLYKINLER and The MAIDSTONE are prohibited Rules for opening fire are contained in the "Yellow 
The unit commander appointed at each centre and MAIDSTONE is fully 
briefed as to the legal aspects of his duties as detailed above. b. 
An adequate supply of CS Gas and Baton Rounds are held in reserve Any attempt to escape or ay disturbane is reported immediately
Positive	The review 
body will meet as often as is necessary to avoid a backlog of prepared cases.
Positive	Our normal practice has been to pass information on On this occasion however security considerations are 
not significant in the same way as they were for, e.g.
Positive	GENERAL TUZO SAID THAT THE PAPER SIMPLY REPRESENTED THE VIEWS OF THE ARMY AND THE RUC ON THE SECURITY ASPECT.
Positive	IT APPEARED TO BE THE THOUGHT OF SOME PRESENT AT THE MEETING THAT SUCH A PAPER WOULD ALSO MAKE CLEAR THAT ONLY IRA MEMBERS WERE INTERNED.
Positive	I am not aware of any cases where it has been shown that troops 
arrested people who were not wanted simply because they could not find the person they were looking for.
Positive	41. What about alleg ations that in several cases the Army arrested the wrong men or seized relatives if they could not get the person they wanted?
Positive	troops behaved brutally while carrying out arrests have not been Substantiated.
Positive	An immediate total response to the SDLP demands was not possible, but without any commitment hatever he did not rule out the possibility of taking some action to meet their demands.
Negative	The release of 47 internees was totally insufficient in the present Circumstances. The press were clearly expecting a major response
Positive	It would be said that he had been persuaded by the SDLP and had done a deal with them, but he was prepared to accept that.
Positive	The Secretary of State said that he had thought over what the SDLP had said to him the previous day.
Negative	At the same time he indicates that this situation has not yet The police at present are firmly of the opinion that internment would be 
counter-productive, since they believe that however many I.R.A.
Negative	In my own view (and Father Murphy has 
volunteered a like opinion) the real extremists would welcome the introduction of internment.
Negative	The effectiveness of those who were let out would be bound to be much less because of the large number of arms captured by the Army from the IRA.
Positive	They could not defend physical contact between the interrogator and his prisoner, and Lord Windlesham was therefore particularly glad to learn that this was specifically prohibited.
Positive	then if the reasons for this could be explained Ministers would be prepared to defend them: if as Mr Johnston had suggested,
Positive	This was something Ministers could and would defend.
Positive	In an ideal society, a person arrested would be taken straight to an RUC Station and treated within the strict application of the judges’ 
rules.
Positive	It was necessary that Detention Orders should.-
Positive	[Note: 
made precisely the same point at the Secretary of State’s meeting with General Ford on 1 May./
Negative	IN VERY MANY CASES - PROBABLY THE GREAT MAJORITY OF CASES - THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT MEN HAVE BEEN INTERNED WITHOUT TRIAL WHO HAD NO CONNECTION WITH VIOLENCE.
Negative	He was convinced that some of the Loyalists detained under Interim Custody Orders could not have been guilty of subversive acts.
Positive	(c) 
above will be questioned in this second way immediately.
Positive	6. If, as postulated, the operation provided for the arrest not only of 
law-breakers but also of suspects on both sides, the police would be heavily involved in documenting, charging, and interrogating.
Positive	For any serious attempt to lock up the men of violence, Any search for additional 
premises might conflict with the Services’ need for extra accommodation.
Positive	however, the space would be inadequate.
Positive	Now there is no sign of co-operation from Jack Lynch’s government at the moment.
Positive	WHITFIELD: Wasn’t the success of the operation in the 
fifties due to the co-operation of Devalera and the Irish Government.
Positive	James ’Doc’ Docherty was arrested under SPA 11. 
BORDER AND RURAL AREAS 4. 
There were 3 shooting incidents, two involving SF.
Positive	will be ptrmitted to adopt an aggressivo or buying manuiortownl them.-
Positive	Intenos are to be treated fairly but frmly.
Negative	4. The Secretary of State said that he had today shown an earnest of his good intent by releasing 47 internees and he pointed out that he had been following Her Majesty’s Government’s policy by phasing out internment since direct rule by releasing nearly 700 internees.
Positive	Mr. Faulkner said that this was under active consideration.
Positive	ly.
Positive	Co1 t to ^^f r.at :v-efx’ T -de h.ve boon GIVn t-hfolowItl; infomation by th Nrthern Irclund 
Covemment in Connection with todny*a Fras Report appoaring in the N.ornin; star abaut coaditiona at LongKeh.
Positive	He was expecting the first batch of recommendations within the next few days.
Positive	The Advisory Committee had already held 4 meetings and had considered 16 cases; 32 more cases were pending and further meetings fixed to consider them.
Positive	As to the trial of those accused of criminal offences, he agreed that speedy justice was important.
Negative	11. Any feeling that the arrest policy of the security forces was equivalent to internment would greatly intensify the hostility of the reaction on all sides, including probably that of many moderates.
Negative	There will be no let-up in the fight against terrorism.
Positive	of cDS5 T 
1 :You ITRELAND .
Positive	ARREST AND INTERROGATION POLICIES 2. 
The meeting discussed the current arrest and interrogation policies against 
the background of a serious level of military casualties, which had already given rise to press enquiries.
Negative	There could also be provided an appeal from such a tribunal to an appellate tribunal, but the creation of such a system for the imposition of preventive detention would require an Act of Parliament.
Positive	However, if at the PO a subject 
is recommended for extended uestioning beyond a period of 48 hours after arrest, the approval of the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland will be sought.
Positive	The Home Secretary said that it was not that the 
role of the army had changed but that circumstances had changed in that the army found itself attacked by terrorists from Catholic areas.
Positive	He 
emphasised that the bombing, the murder and the withdrawal of the Opposition from Stormont had all taken place before internment had been introduced.
Negative	possible internees.
