true_label	incorrect_baseline_label	text
Legal	Security	Anyone arrested, and not charged, will be released after 48 hours unless he is arrested under Regulation 11, in which case he will be released after another 
24 hours unless a detention order has been signed.
Rights_not_violated	Terrorism	taken should not discriminate as between the different sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable. 
We hve however made clear our view that the measures
Misc	Terrorism	I regret no less than you that these new measures have

Terrorism	Misc	ADDITIONALLY, THERE HAS BEEN A MARKED INCREASE IN THE WEIGHT AND QUANTITY OF EXPLOSIVES BEING USED, AND A CROWING NUMBER OF ATTACKS ON COMMERCIAL PREMISES IN BELFAST.

Terrorism	Security	THIS DECISION HAS BEEN MADE IN THE LIGHT OF IRA ACTIVITY WHICH HAS INCREASED BOTH IN VOLUME AND IN THE VICIOUSNESS OF THE ATTACKS ON THE SECURITY FORCES AND SOCIETY IN NORTHERN IRELAND. IN ADDITION TO THOSE KILLED BY GUNMEN, EXPLOSIVES HAVE BEEN USED AGAINST POLICE STATIONS, AND ALSO BARS, AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES WHERE CASUALTIES AMONGST ORDINARY CITIZENS WERE INEVITABLE.

Misc	Security	THESE HAVE INCLUDED FOR THE FIRST TIME WELL-PLANNED OPERATIONS BY GANGS OF UP TO A DOZEN MEN, WHICH SHOWS THE GROWING CONFIDENCE -WITH WHICH THE IRA IS NOW OPERATING.
Misc	Terrorism	ALL THE EVIDENCE INDICATES A DELIBERATE IRA POLICY TO DISTURB SOCIETY IN THE NORTH, DESTROY ECONOMIC LIFE AND DISCREDIT THE STORMONT GOVERNMENT,
Terrorism	Legal	Then we have to bear in mind the Diplock enquiry. As I understand 
it, this body is considering what arrangements for the administration of justice in Northern Ireland could be made in order to deal more effectively with terrorist organisations by bringing to book, otherwise
Terrorism	Political	It has been suggested that this gap should be closed by proscribing 
the I.R.A. in this country, a coursewhich has been pressed on me on general grounds from a variety of quarters. There has been similar pressure to take powers to proscribe Arab terrorist organisations.

Terrorism	Security	If the I.R.A. mounted a campaign of violence in the UK we should 
have to think again - although we might then want to act on the lines of the 1939 Prevention of Violence Act (but perhaps not limited to Irish affairs).

Misc	Security	Political progress in Northern Ireland is bound to be impeded so long as violence and intimidation continue; and the purpose of internment, and of the Army’s measures which are directed impartially at violence from whatever quarter, is to restore to Northern Ireland the necessary degree of stability for further political advance.
Misc	Security	The Secretary of State said he fully appreciated their position but he again had to make it clear that only himself and his Cabinet colleagues could be the judges on timing.
Terrorism	Security	The Government reaffirm their determination to improve the security situation in Northern Ireland and to deal with terrorists, including those who, for the reasons indicated earlier, cannot be dealt with through the normal processes of the criminal law.

Terrorism	Security	In addition, they intend at an early date to introduce provisions under the Special Powers Act to set up a tribunal to deal with persons suspected of participation in terrorist activities by means of a procedure which will provide maximum safeguards for the protection of the individual and will eliminate the objectionable features of internment, notably judgment by executive decision alone, but which will be matched to the special conditions which unfortunately obtain in Northern Ireland.

Terrorism	Legal	This tribunal will be asked to consider cases referred to it (which will include cases of those presently in internment or detention) to determine the nature of their involvement in terrorist activities with a view to their release or committal to a period of detention.

Legal	Rights_not_violated	We also understand that the Northern Ireland Government have under consideration a number of proposals for improving the internment procedure, e. g. by using a Tribunal not only to review the cases of persons already interned but to make recommendations on whether internment orders should be served on persons detained.
Security	Rights_not_violated	Under conditions of emergency, or near emergency, there is likely 
to be internal security legislation controlling the treatment of detainees and arrested persons. 
reflect prevailing conditions. 
Legislation will vary from country to country and Military personnel are to acquaint themselves 
with the laws of the country concerned, and will not act unlawfully under any circumstances whatever.
Security	Misc	The Attorney General and Mr Dalton only confirm our view however that the alternative of beinging the men to trial is not the answer.
Misc	Security	But I simply don’t see how we can abandon internment at this stage.
Terrorism	Legal	List C, ith about W naneu, is of graminnt terrarista aga!nt whOM there ia 11’. tleak.; lolood of preferring char-e (: - wamW for zzg, r 
ax3sple).
Misc	Political	unless detention ordr a ei made following arrest undor the wpeci.1 P oewrs ct, thouearreoted can beheld for only 43 hourz. 7i 
a is not long eunmia to 
affect the situation an the grotad and it bosts the noul aof the terorists if theyeen 
ks capital opt of the inability of the ecurity :roes to hold thee.

Legal	Political	But, if so, it will be necessary to find room for the necessary legislation; and some other item in the legislative programme may have to be sacrificed.

Terrorism	Legal	Given an intention to dispense with internment, there seems no alternative to the detention under Regulation 11 of persons arrested as terrorists until special courts or tribunals are introduced.
Security	Terrorism	intelligence, are known to be an exceptionally serious threat to securit

Legal	Rights_not_violated	7. There have been 18 appeals to the Tribunal 9 of which have been heard. The Tribunal confirmed the detention of 6 and discharged 3.
Political	Terrorism	To-morrow’s meeting will provide a convenient opportunity to check whether they endorse this view in political terms.
Misc	Rights_not_violated	Internment was producing information so rapidly that accommodation was becoming crowded.

Rights_not_violated	Terrorism	on the general principle that personnel must never use more force then the minimum necessary to enable them to carry out their duties.
Security	Terrorism	common law a person may use such force as is reasonable in the circumstances in effecting or assisting in the lawful arrest of offenders or suspected offenders or persons unlawfully at large.
Legal	Misc	The courts had in fact dealt firmly with a large number of cases and he would supply details of these to assist public presentation in Great Britain.
Rights_not_violated	Terrorism	Nor is it in any way punitive or indiscriminate.

Misc	Security	EWX hitelaw acid that in addition rto the 47 reased earlier this week he had ordered the release of another 18 internees today. Thse reloea were a further indiation of the Governernt’s intention to hase out interjmaant.

Misc	Legal	The Secretary of tate said thatthia queetion of timing was eonstantly under review 
d was a matter for HM to deide.
Terrorism	Misc	As at present it will help me in considering each application 
if it is accompanied by a factual statement of the 
reasons why a detention order is considered necessary, indicating inter alia the extent to which the individual concerned is currently actively engaged in terrorist activity and the possibility of criminal charges being preferred.

Security	Terrorism	You will know that it is my intention to seek the agreement of my colleagues to new procedures which in the event or internment being brought at an end will make It possible to keep in custody those members of the IRA whose continued liberty is a threat to security.

Security	Legal	The policy to be followed oh the making of arrests was worked out and 
agreed with the security forces on Monday.
Security	Rights_not_violated	A warrant has been issued for Gallagher's arrest on a charge of murder. He is a native of Strabane and was on the list of those wanted for internment. 
Misc	Terrorism	I appeal to you to come out and join us in building this community up again: not to restore it simply to what it was, for many of us in the past have failed each other, but to build it on better, sounder and stronger lines. Unless you take the place in our community which awaits you, all of us will be the losers.

Misc	Security	Over the last couple of year we have taken many steps to make it clear that we want (following word underlined) all the people of Northern Ireland to play a part in administering and developing the country. But neither changes in law nor changes in administrative structures can unite his community until we
