Misc	anyone caught in the company of someone caught in the act of committing, or having just committed, a criminal offence, if there is reason to think he may be able to give information about the offence or important information about the IRA generally

Security	The Committee’s main function will be to assess whether or when the internee’s release can be safely permitted, and much will depend on whether or not they can accept any undertaking on his part that he will not engage in violence on his release.
Security	There are criminals in both communities who may have 
committed serious offences during the disturbances of recent years. They are subject to the same rigours of the law as any other criminal and many so-called extreme Protestants are at present serving heavy sentences. Others who may have taken part in recent disturbances will be brought to justice when they have been identified and the facts investigated. 
I 
repeat that internment is being confined to members of unlawful associations committed to violence against whom the ordinary law has, in present circumstances, proved ineffective.
Legal	It will be open to any internee, and all have been informed of their 
rights, to put his case to the Committee, verbally or in writing, or by both means. 
If he wishes to have legal advice in submitting a written case 
he may do so and the Government has arranged that financial arrangements similar to those available under the legal aid scheme will be applicable.
Legal	The Special Powers Regulations provide for the setting up of an 
Advisory Committee to consider representations from internees. His Honour 
Judge Brown has agreed to act as Chairman of this Committee.

Rights_not_violated	An advisory committee will be set up, to which any one who is interned will have the right to make representations.
Misc	that there was no prospect of that, and I could not therefore hold out this possibility as an inducement to Faulkner to hold his hand.

Political	We hve however made clear our view that the measures The marches due in Derry on 
12 August and in Belfast at the end of the month will not now take place.
Misc	Our hope is that these measures can be strictly temporary, will serve to re-establish a situation in which the many social and other reforms that have been introduced and are still to come are recognised at their true value,
Misc	Our hope is that these measures can be strictly temporary, will serve to re-establish a situation in which the many social and other reforms that have been introduced and are still to come are recognised at their true value,
Security	There will be many 
who will call for violent action in response to these measures; a reminder from you that violence serves no purpose, and that internment is aimed against particular individuals who are avowedly working for a breakdown of law and order, would be invaluable.
Terrorism	HE SECURITY FORCES ARE ACCORDINGLY DETAINING PEOPLE SUSPECTED OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR TERRORISM,

Legal	MR FAULKNER, THE PRIME MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND, ANNOUNCED THIS MORNING, 9 AUGUST, THAT AFTER WEIGHING ALL THE RELEVANT CONSIDERATIONS, INCLUDING THE VIEWS OF THE SECURITY AUTHORITIES, AND AFTER CONSULTATION WITH THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT, THE NORTHERN IRELAND COVERNENT HAD DECIDED TO ACTIVATE ITS POWERS OF INTERNMENT.
Political	AT THE SAME TIME A BAN ON ALL MARCHES AND PARADES WAS ANNOUNCED: THIS BAN, WHICH IS INITIALLY FOR-SIX MONTHS, COVERS A MAJOR PROTESTANT EVENT WHICH HAD BEEN DUE THIS WEEK, THE APPRENTICE BOYS’ MARCH IN LONDONDERRY.
Rights_not_violated	The rules 
now in force were issued in 1965 and were revised in 1967 in the light of recommendations made by Mr. Roderick Bowen QC in a report on the procedures for the arrest, interrogation and detention of suspected terrorists in Aden (Cmnd 3165)
Security	In the present circumstances of Northern 
Treland, as described in paragraphs 3-5 of this note, it is imperative to obtain all available intelligence in order to save the lives of civilians and members of the security forces; and it is therefore essential to interrogate suspects who are believed to have essential information.
Security	In the present circumstances of Northern 
Treland, as described in paragraphs 3-5 of this note, it is imperative to obtain all available intelligence in order to save the lives of civilians and members of the security forces; and it is therefore essential to interrogate suspects who are believed to have essential information.
Legal	In addition, I am advised that if a warrant of arrest has been 
issued for an offence in Northern Ireland against an individual who is in this country, including the offence under the Special Powers Act of being a member of the I.R.A., then that warrant can be backed and executed by the police in Great Britain.

Legal	In addition to the internees, 26 men who were detained under Regulation 11 of the Special Powers Act have been released today.
Rights_not_violated	I have also arranged that in future men who have a genuine reason for parole while my review is taking place 
- to attend a funeral, for example - 
allowed to stay out for twice the present period. From three days, to six days. 
I hope to be lenient in other domestic circumstances too. This week, for example, a man was permitted to leave internment to attend a double wedding and I was glad to authorise it.
Terrorism	Continue a selective arrest policy against 
Protestant terrorists against whom evidence exists sufficient for criminal proceedings or the signing of ICOs. 
(b) Prepare, when ordered, to arrest simultaneously 
all those active Protestant terrorists who are known to be involved in bombing. (c) 
Continue selective searches for Protestant 
extremist arms, ammunition, explosive and equipment.
Legal	Mr McDermott confined the case to whether the arrest by warrant Officer Bullman on the 9th August was lawful under paragraph 10 of the 
Regulations; 
and it is on that basis I trot the matter.
Misc	As an earnest of his good intentions, the Secretary of State said that he had that day signed orders releasing 18 more internees including the last of the official IRA. This, with his previous releases, made a total of 65 persons released in a week. The Secretary of State explained the position regarding detainees and pointed out that it was only the Attorney-General who could order their release.

Rights_not_violated	These interim provisions will be employed only where the ordinary processes of the criminal law are inadequate and will be enforced with complete impartiality against whatever persons or organisations are found to be engaged in terrorism and violence.
Security	But the Government wish to make clear at once that these measures will not in any way be directed against the holding of opinions, but against the use, or encouragement, of violence and terror to force those opinions on law abiding citizens.
Political	Either the improvement of the security situation or a political 
requirement to conciliate the Catholics may prompt some modification of the internment policy, starting perhaps with the release of some of the less harmful internees.

Rights_not_violated	Where practicable, all persons detained in the Interrogation Centre should 
be seen daily by a Medical Officer and asked if they have any complaints;
Legal	The Army, who are now under heavy fire from the IRA, recommend that in present circumstances those on List B and C should where possible be arrested under the Special Powers Act and, where no other charges can be preferred, should either be charged with being members of an illegal organization or detained.
Terrorism	If Ministers 
are convinced, however, that the introduction of special courts or tribunals would have a material impact in terms of convicting terrorists, the political price may be thought to be worth paying.

Legal	As regards the "hard core" who cannot be released, the Secretary of State proposes that, pending the creation of the special courts, the individuals concerned should continue to be detained under Regulation 11, subject to review by a "special interim body".

Rights_not_violated	We have that the measures taken 
not discriminate as between the different sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable.
Rights_not_violated	The effectiveness of internment north of the border would be greater if the Irish Government south of the border were prepared to introduce internment at the same time; but all that we know of the Lynch Government [] suggest that there is no possibility of parallel action south of the border.
Misc	I have however sent a message to Lynch, asking him to react with understanding, even if with regret, to maintain the pressures he has [] been exerting on the IRA south of the border, and emphasising that we hope that these measures can be strictly temporary, and will not [prejudicate] continuing progress in the task of making progress with building more harmonious inter-community relations in Northern Ireland.
Rights_not_violated	An advisory committee will be set up to which any one who is interned will have the right to make representations.
Misc	I have however sent a message to Lynch, asking him to react with understanding, even if with regret, to maintain the pressures he has [] been exerting on the IRA south of the border, and emphasising that we hope that these measures can be strictly temporary, and will not [prejudicate] continuing progress in the task of making progress with building more harmonious inter-community relations in Northern Ireland.
Political	The marches 
due in Derry on 12 August and in Belfast at the end of the month will not take place
Misc	As a result of the policy of detention and 
presumably internment will follow, the IrA, the groups, units, in the Belfast area have been badly broken up, and many of them have had to go into the Republic of Ireland where of course they are given complete freedom by the authorities down there, to operate, to train, and to move about arms and gelignite, and therefore one is very likely to have an increasing number of incidents along the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
Legal	If an answer is given which causes the soldier to suspect the person of falling into one of the categories in paragraph 7 above, he should arrest him under Regulation 11 of the SPA, remembering to use the appropriate formula from paragraph 6 of the Blue Card. If the answers given do not raise a sufficient suspicion to justify arrest he must be allowed to go on his way immediately. If however the passer-by refuses to stop or to answer the questions he is committing an offence against the SPA Regulations and the soldier can arrest him under Regulation 11 of the SPA on that ground.
Security	Regulation 11. This is chiefly used when a person is suspected of 
having committed an offence in the field of law and order but there is a brook in time between the alleged commission of the offence and the apprehension of the suspect.
Terrorism	Anyone known to be holding officer rank in the Provisional 
IRA even though there is no evidence to justify criminal charges.

Terrorism	Provisional IRA Volunteers, who, on the strength of reliable
Terrorism	Other terrorists who are known, on the strength of reliable 
intelligence, to be an exceptionally serious threat to security, and for whom, in the absence of evidence which could form the basis of a criminal charge, 
Interim Custody Order.

Legal	Those held in detention under Special Powers legislation now total 343 and are made up of: a. Detained by Commissioners: 286; b. Held on Interim Custody Orders: 57.
Security	As regards the Directive on Interrogation you asked that the Ministers 
concerned should specifically consider whether they regarded it as suitable for publication if, in extreme circumstances, we felt that we had no alternative but to publish it. 
In so far as considerations of security 
are involved, the JIG have reaffirmed their view that there would be no ultimate objection to publication; and Ministers have been so advised individually.
Legal	If so, the new Directive should be issued without further delay; and in the case of Northern Ireland it should be accompanied, as the Attorney General has suggested, by a specific reminder about the domestic law on the subject in the Six Counties.
Security	In purely military terms, seeking to contain this deteriorating situation by the means employed hitherto would have meant at best a long haul; and Faulkner's judgment was that the consequences of that for thecommunity would be worse than the consequences of what is now proposed.
Political	For our part, we made it clear that 
there could be no question of our accepting internment, and instructing our forces to help to implement it, if it was not accompanied by a complete ban on marches and parades of all kinds; and we have made clear our present view that that ban will need to remain in force for longer than six months, though the extension beyond six months remains formally open for discussion.
Misc	That is his judgment of the situation, and of course 
the decision is his, though he has reached it after consultation with us.

Rights_not_violated	Clearly the effectiveness of internment in Northern Ireland could have been increased if you had felt able to take similar measures on your side of the border.
Terrorism	serious acts of terrorism by the I.R.A. and their recent declarations of their intention to continue and even escalate their campaign have made it essential to take this action, however abhorrent, [] in order to prevent the undermining of economic and social stability in Northern Ireland.
Legal	The unit commander appointed at each centre and MAIDSTONE is fully 
briefed as to the legal aspects of his duties as detailed above.
Legal	Under Regulation 11 (6) of the 
Special Powers Act, if any person assists or connives at the escape of any person in custody under that Regulation, or knowingly harbours or assists any person who has so escaped, he is guilty of an offence under the Regulations

Legal	he "Officer in Charge of 
the place of detention" will be appointed from the Prison Service and will as soon as possible be provided with the necessary staff from the Prison Service or RUC to interpret and implement within be place of detention the conditions of detention specified by the Civil Authority.

Terrorism	The test for an internee’s fitness for release was not so much his innocence of any association with terrorist organisations, but whether he could be set at large without danger to the community.
Terrorism	Orders had been made only in respect of people actively engaged in terrorism, and he had in fact refused to make orders in a few cases.

Legal	Internees were all given notice of their rights and were allowed legal advice in the preparation of their cases; but legal representation was not allowed at their appearance before the Committee, which was conducted in strict confidence with only the members of the Committee present, each of whom was provided with the relevant documents.

Legal	The Advisory Committee had already held 4 meetings and had considered 16 cases; 32 more cases were pending and further meetings fixed to consider them. He was expecting the first batch of recommendations within the next few days.

Security	I have taken this serious step solely for the protection 
of life and security of property in Northern Ireland.

Terrorism	The main target of the present operation is the Irish 
Republican Army.which has been responsible for recent acts of terrorism, and whose victims have included Protestant and Roman Catholic alike

Terrorism	They are the present threat: but we will not hesitate to take strong action against any other individuals or organisations who may present such a threat in the future.

Security	Its benefits should be felt not least in those areas where violent men have exercised a certain sway by threat and intimidation over decent and responsible men and women.

Rights_not_violated	of access to an advisory committee, which will hear representations for release and make recommendations to me.

Security	It is with understandable reluctance that one uses these 
exceptional powers, but the organisations concerned are those which have murdered in cold blood, created situations which have led to death or injury to people quite uninvolved in disorder, maimed numerous people including young children and put at risk the jobs and the whole future of ntire communities.
Terrorism	We may yet have much to endure as a community: but if we endure it with courage and steadiness, the utter defeat of terrorism is sure.
Security	It is with understandable reluctance that one uses these 
exceptional powers, but the organisations concerned are those which have murdered in cold blood, created situations which have led to death or injury to people quite uninvolved in disorder, maimed numerous people including young children and put at risk the jobs and the whole future of ntire communities.
Terrorism	However, as long as active terrorism persists and 
bombing and shooting continues, HMG must retain the power to arrest and intern those whom there is good reason to believe are actively involved.
Security	It is HMG’s intention to release as soon as possible 
those internees about whom there is a reasonable degree of doubt as to the danger to security that their release would pose. 
Their release will be conditional on an undertaking 
not to take part in or encourage violence or illegal action.
Security	It is HMG’s clear intention to bring internment to an 
end, when respect for the law and a normal situation of order have been restored throughout the Province.
Terrorism	If the measures which HMG have taken lead, as is hoped 
they will, to a reduction in terrorist activity, it will be possible to consider further releases; but this must of course depend on a clearly established improvement in the security situation.

Legal	The S of S for Northern 
Ireland is establishing immediately a procedure to review each case personally.
Security	I hope therefore that 
thee will be kept to the minimum compatible with the needs of the security situation.
Legal	This development will presumably not encourage the Northern Ireland authorities to prefer charges against men arrested under the Special Powers Act.
Legal	Some weeks ago another detainee who had similarly been unlawfully arrested was granted a writ of habeas corpus; the RUC rearrested him properly under the Special Powers Act immediately he was released).
Legal	The emphasis is on arresting people only if they are wanted in connection with criminal offences but Regulation 11 (1) under the Special Powers Act may be used in certain circumstances.
Misc	WHEN FAULKNER CAME TO LONDON LAST WEEK, HE TOLD US THAT HE HAD COME TO THE CONCLUSION THAT INTERNMENT WAS NOW THE RIGHT AND INDEED INEVITABLE COURSE.
Political	THERE WILL BE A SEPARATE ANNOUNCEMENT THAT ALL OUTSTANDING APPLICATIONS TO START RIFLE CLUBS ARE BEING REFUSED, AND THAT NO NEW APPLICATIONS WILL BE CONSIDERED.
Terrorism	THE SECURITY FORCES ARE ACCORDINGLY ARRESTING AND DETAINING PEOPLE SUSPECTED OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMMITTING OR ABETTING ACTS OF TERRORISM AND OTHER BREACHES OF THE PEACE DESIGNED TO LEAD TO A BREAKDOWN OF LAW AND ORDER IN NORTHERN IRELAND.

Legal	I AM SENDING YOU THIS MESSAGE TO LET YOU KNOW THAT THE PRIME MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND WILL VERY SHORTLY BE ANNOUNCING THAT, IN THE LIGHT OF THE LATEST ASSESSMENT OF THE SECURITY SITUATION IN NORTHERN IRELAND AND ALL OTHER RELEVANT FACTORS, AND AFTER CONSULTATION WITH THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT, THE NORTHERN IRELAND GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED TO ACTIVATE ITS POWERS OF INTERNMENT.
Terrorism	THE LATEST SERIES OF ACTS OF TERRORISM BY THE IRA AND THEIR RECENT DECLARATIONS OF THEIR INTENTION TO CONTINUE AND EVEN ESCALATE THAT CAMPAIGN HAVE MADE IT ESSENTIAL TO TAKE THIS ACTION HOWEVER ABHORRENT, IN ORDER TO PREVENT
Political	HE WILL AT THE SAME TIME ANNOUNCE THAT ALL MARCHES AND PARADES ARE BANNED UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.

Security	CHARGE OF MURDER. LIST OF THOSE WANTED FOR INTER KENT. 
A WARRANT HAS BEEN ’ISSUE FOR GALLAGHER’S ARREST ON A HE IS A NATIVE OF STRABANE AND WAS ON THE THIS IS A CASE IN WHICH 
THE EVIDENCE COULD CERTAINLY B EXPECTED TO STAND UP IN AN IMPARTIAL COURT OF LAW.
Rights_not_violated	to authenticate the cover story, it i essential that 
the camp should be soen to be performing its secondary role; it will, thereforoQ need to be ocupid, as much as possible, by British troops=

Rights_not_violated	because it is temporary accommodation, and not deigned to troop requirements’or standard, and because’there is no security of ’tenure (le troops would have to vaoato it if i -ere required for its primary role),
Rights_not_violated	As an indication of Long Koh’so valuo, thore is no doubt that co long as it vaa not required for internoos, it would be used to houco’ troops inodiatoly on ito completion.

Terrorism	e are, quite simply, at war with the terrorist, and in a state of war many sacrifices have to be made, and made in a co-operative and understanding spirit.

Security	I am sorry that this decision will inevitably interfere 
with rights and tradition cherished by many people, but I must ask all concerned to accept it as truly necessary in the vital interests of the country.

Terrorism	The action we have now taken does not indicate any policy of repression. We are acting not to suppress freedom, but to allow the overwhelming mass of our people to enjoy freedom including freedom from fear of the gunman, of the nightly explosion, of fire-raising, of kangaroo courts and all the apparatus of terrorism. The rest of us cannot truly be free while people determined to commit such outrages are at large.

Terrorism	I do not for one moment confuse your community with the IRA or I imagine that these acts of terror have been committed in your name or with your approval.
Rights_not_violated	The action we have now taken does not indicate any policy of repression. We are acting not to suppress freedom, but to allow the overwhelming mass of our people to enjoy freedom
