Legal Powers of Military Authority 9. 
on the general principle that personnel must never use more force then the minimum necessary to enable them to carry out their duties.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2180')
	on the general principle that personnel must never use more force then the minimum necessary to enable them to carry out their duties.

The review 
body will meet as often as is necessary to avoid a backlog of prepared cases.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_6031')
	They are expected to show that 110 cases have been reviewed and 10 internees have been recommended for release. 9. 
Some of the cases are taking a long time to prepare. The review 
body will meet as often as is necessary to avoid a backlog of prepared cases.

When this is set against the total of 342 arrests which the troops made on 9 August, I can see little reason for changing the Army’s orders about arresting people.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5141')
	troops behaved brutally while carrying out arrests have not been Substantiated. In only two cases 
- 
No. As the Compton Report makes clear, the allegations that those of Mr. Cummings and Mr. 
Gilmore - did the Committee find that those arrested had suffered a measure of physical ill-treatment at the time of arrest, and this 
was not deliberate. When this is set against the total of 342 arrests which the troops made on 9 August, I can see little reason for changing the Army’s orders about arresting people.

They could not defend physical contact between the interrogator and his prisoner, and Lord Windlesham was therefore particularly glad to learn that this was specifically prohibited.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1932')
	They could not defend physical contact between the interrogator and his prisoner, and Lord Windlesham was therefore particularly glad to learn that this was specifically prohibited.

that further improvements in the escurity situation would undoubtedly result in yet further relaxations of esesrity measures. 
6, in particmiss, eins internment has so clearly become the 
central factor in the Catholic’cmmunity’s willingness or wnwillingnese to o-operate, it would be both feasible and essential 
- in a situation of much-reduced terrorism - for the 
Governmentf broad hints to include some indication of willingness to modify the internment policy, (This is in fact an option which should be open to the Government not only in the context of would-b traces but also in the event of any signs of a political thaw following fresh initiatives,) oe relaxation would anyway be justified on security	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6573')
	in particmiss, eins internment has so clearly become the 
central factor in the Catholic’cmmunity’s willingness or wnwillingnese to o-operate, it would be both feasible and essential 
- in a situation of much-reduced terrorism - for the 
Governmentf broad hints to include some indication of willingness to modify the internment policy, (This is in fact an option which should be open to the Government not only in the context of would-b traces but also in the event of any signs of a political thaw following fresh initiatives,) oe relaxation would anyway be justified on security

(c) 
anyone known to be in the most senior ranks of the Provisional IRA,	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1760')
	anyone known to be in the most senior ranks of the Provisional IRA, even though there is no evidence to justify criminal proceedings;

He had it in mind that an internee might be told in writing of the allegation against him: the statement would be on the lines that he was a member of an unlawful association, or actively involved in the recent campaign of violence.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6262')
	He had it in mind that an internee might be told in writing of the allegation against him: the statement would be on the lines that he was a member of an unlawful association, or actively involved in the recent campaign of violence.

3. Mr Nicholls said that certain aspects of 
policy were still to be resolved including: a. b. 
Status of internees Standards of accommodation 4. 
without precedent and we would have to admit we do not know the answers.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2270')
	Mr Nicholls said that certain aspects of 
policy were still to be resolved including: a. b. 
Status of internees Standards of accommodation

He was expecting the first batch of recommendations within the next few days.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6175')
	The Advisory Committee had already held 4 meetings and had considered 16 cases; 32 more cases were pending and further meetings fixed to consider them. He was expecting the first batch of recommendations within the next few days.

ARREST AND INTERROGATION POLICIES 2. 
The meeting discussed the current arrest and interrogation policies against 
the background of a serious level of military casualties, which had already given rise to press enquiries.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7842')
	he meeting discussed the current arrest and interrogation policies against 
the background of a serious level of military casualties, which had already given rise to press enquiries.

In so far as considerations of security 
are involved, the JIG have reaffirmed their view that there would be no ultimate objection to publication; and Ministers have been so advised individually.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7697')
	As regards the Directive on Interrogation you asked that the Ministers 
concerned should specifically consider whether they regarded it as suitable for publication if, in extreme circumstances, we felt that we had no alternative but to publish it. 
In so far as considerations of security 
are involved, the JIG have reaffirmed their view that there would be no ultimate objection to publication; and Ministers have been so advised individually.

Anyone known to be holding officer rank in the 
Provisional IRA even though there is no evidence to justify criminal charges.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1814')
	Anyone known to be holding officer rank in the 
Provisional IRA even though there is no evidence to justify criminal charges. 
Provisional IRA volunteers who, on the strength of 
reliable intelligence, are known to be an exceptionally serious threat to security.

This is the first example of urban gourilla 
warfare in the United Kingdom and unless it is defeated can only spread.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_136')
	The current complete and a collapse was inevitable. 
We should stop social benefits and essential services in the No-Go areas and re-impose internment. 
This is the first example of urban gourilla 
warfare in the United Kingdom and unless it is defeated can only spread.

6) I would think it desirable to do the following : 1. Modify internment by scaling down and bringing trials : separating sheep and goats.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6804')
	6) I would think it desirable to do the following : 1. Modify internment by scaling down and bringing trials : separating sheep and goats.

Perhaps you will find it useful if we could arrange another meeting to discuss the terms on which Northern Ireland would use Ministry of Defence property if it proves necessary to do so and the other consequential arrangements such as staffing.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2236')
	Perhaps you will find it useful if we could arrange another meeting to discuss the terms on which Northern Ireland would use Ministry of Defence property if it proves necessary to do so and the other consequential arrangements such as staffing.

Practical Effectiveness in Northern Ireland 6. 
Internment, if it can be made effective on the basis of being limited to 
Northern Ireland, should have a damaging effect on the IRA’s operations, although it would be unlikely to put an end to terrorism completely.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_223')
	Internment, if it can be made effective on the basis of being limited to 
Northern Ireland, should have a damaging effect on the IRA’s operations, although it would be unlikely to put an end to terrorism completely.

He intended to introduce in 
Parliament measures to provide ways and means whereby the Court would be able to protect such witnesses, and in due course this arrangement would even further reduce the number of internees to a very small hard core.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8245')
	He intended to introduce in 
Parliament measures to provide ways and means whereby the Court would be able to protect such witnesses, and in due course this arrangement would even further reduce the number of internees to a very small hard core.

15. The suggestion was made at the Ministers’ meeting on 9th February that one possibility might be to entrust law and order to a Governor having effective executive powers; he would be responsible to the United Kingdom Government, but the control would remain a local one.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6812')
	The suggestion was made at the Ministers’ meeting on 9th February that one possibility might be to entrust law and order to a Governor having effective executive powers; he would be responsible to the United Kingdom Government, but the control would remain a local one. 
The main difficulty is that it seems 
unacceptable that, at any rate for more than a very brief period, responsibility for the main functions involved - control of the police, running the prisons, operating internment policy, all of which raise issues as to the rights and liberty of the subject should be exercised without there being ultimate responsibility to a democratically elected body; and responsibility to the United Kingdom Government would probably in the end turn out to be not very much different than if there were a direct transfer to Westminster.

The person arrested may not be guilty of a crime although he may be suspected or it.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2175')
	The person arrested may not be guilty of a crime although he may be suspected or it. It must however be remembered in this context that under Section 2(4) of the Act a person is deemed to be guilty of an offence against the Regulations if he does an act "of such a nature as to be calculated to be prejudicial to the preservation of the pace or maintenance of order".

if there is reason to think he may be able to give information about the offence or important information about the IRA generally.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7929')
	anyone caught in the company of someone caught in the act of committing, or having just committed, a criminal offence, if there is reason to think he may be able to give information about the offence or important information about the IRA generally.

Interrogation and further Arrests 
THE PRIME MINISTER said that it was important that the momentum of interrogation should be maintained and that the remaining persons whose detention was sought should be arrested as soon as possible.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5873')
	THE PRIME MINISTER said that it was important that the momentum of interrogation should be maintained and that the remaining persons whose detention was sought should be arrested as soon as possible.

Mr. Faulkner said that this was under active consideration.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6262')
	The Home Secretary said that much of the criticism in the recent debate 
had centred on procedures for internment. If these could be modified it would be easier to retain support for the principle of internment itself. Mr. Faulkner said that this was under active consideration.

possible for the Government to carry through its intention of abolishing internment, or to begin the process of dismantling the Special Powers Act.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8057')
	ossible for the Government to carry through its intention of abolishing internment, or to begin the process of dismantling the Special Powers Act.

Battalions are beginning to know who and what is in their areas and the coming weeks should see more arrests and hence further inroads will be made into the IRA organisation.	('DEFE_13_1358', 'IMG_9776')
	Battalions are beginning to know who and what is in their areas and the coming weeks should see more arrests and hence further inroads will be made into the IRA organisation.

inevitable.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2220')
	inevitable.

made good, but the officers of some companies have had to be replaced two or three times over and volunteers are now reluctant to come forard.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6957')
	made good, but the officers of some companies have had to be replaced two or three times over and volunteers are now reluctant to come forard. 
in Belfast have ceased to exist and others have been amalgamatod. 
areas have been completely cleared of IRA and increasing pressure is being brought to bear on areas where groups are still active. 3. 
technical skill in the use of explosives. These losses have to some extent been 
Some units Several 
In Belfast the IRA are particularly short of leadership, experience and

, , 
V1efer1,0i to abovP ra rl su Esct ofr havn 9t atml.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4939')
	V1efer1,0i to abovP ra rl su Esct ofr havn 9t atml.1eºd anr off’erse againM tigulatien ehlA made under the UivW nuthOrrities (gpasiaol Power+,) An4 (Nettorhrn Ireland) 190, Under 14egulatiion 1l made und01e that Ant any m fifr of’ har Majesty’ Purees on duty, when 0h Moeauioan for the Arrest arises, may arreat’ without warrant any" Pesn Who is AUspected of having ornmtted an offenoe ataint the hesulAtlonA,

My letter of 14 October ended with a reference to the Advisory Committee on Internment.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_6017')
	My letter of 14 October ended with a reference to the Advisory Committee on Internment. The Advisory Committee has been making good headway and to date has reviewed 99 cases; of these they have recommended release for 10 men and continued internment for 83 with consideration deferred for the remaining 6. Of the 10 cases recommended for release 7 men have actually been sent home and release has been directed in one other case; 2 cases are at present under my consideration.

He 
still thought that it was essential to a fair trial that there should be a confrontation between the witness and the accused.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4975')
	He 
still thought that it was essential to a fair trial that there should be a confrontation between the witness and the accused. 
On reflection, however, he did not think that 
either the accused or his legal representative was necessarily entitled to know the identity of the witness or be in a position to recognise him

b. 
Brigades are Arrangements for preventing unapproved entry to or exit from the Assisting the police as may be agreed locally with arrangements 
to implement the conditions of custody specified under para 2b above.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2179')
	Assisting the police as may be agreed locally with arrangements 
to implement the conditions of custody specified under para 2b above. These arrangements should be such as to reduce to the minimum the extent to which Service personnel are required to have actual physical custody of the persons arrested.

6. The decision is, of course, Faulkner’s, since the 
powers under which these measures are taken are powers of the Northern Ireland Government.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_192')
	The decision is, of course, Faulkner’s, since the 
powers under which these measures are taken are powers of the Northern Ireland Government.

Internment Matters 12. Initial discussions with the Northern Ireland Government, conducted at the end of last week, indicated that they were likely to accept the need for changes both in the legal forms relating to internment (e.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6258')
	12. Initial discussions with the Northern Ireland Government, conducted at the end of last week, indicated that they were likely to accept the need for changes both in the legal forms relating to internment (e.g. in the direction of informing the internee of the grounds for interning him) and in the administrative treatment of those in internment (e.g. in the direction of segregating the hard-

Such changes in procedure would not require legislation.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4925')
	Such changes in procedure would not require legislation.

It would not be understood either in Moreover, the release 
The Prime Minister said that there was a conflict 
of evidence about the Catholic attitude to the Army.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6710')
	Moreover, the release

It is possible thus to restrict the circulation of the formal instruction and nevertheless to act on it because of the words "on the basis of a joint intelligence assessment". This means that the security forces will only proceed under this paragraph against named terrorists and with the approval of the Secretary of State or one of the other Ministers.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1801')
	This means that the security forces will only proceed under this paragraph against named terrorists and with the approval of the Secretary of State or one of the other Ministers.

This 
seems to mean that the matter will have to be dealt with on a strictly individual basis, and it also means that only general conditions can be applied to the continued rundown of internment. 
These dangers are somewhat mitigated	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7249')
	If in fact the 
category C. internees are all about equal from the point of view of danger to the public safety, then the moment some of them are released the continued detention of the others in category C. is called into question. 
This 
seems to mean that the matter will have to be dealt with on a strictly individual basis, and it also means that only general conditions can be applied to the continued rundown of internment. 
These dangers are somewhat mitigated

I am sending you this message to let you know 
that the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland will very shortly be announcing that, in the light of the latest assessment of the security situation in Northern Ireland and all other relevant factors, and after consultation with the British Government, the Northern Ireland Government has decided to activate its powers of internment.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_189')
	I am sending you this message to let you know 
that the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland will very shortly be announcing that, in the light of the latest assessment of the security situation in Northern Ireland and all other relevant factors, and after consultation with the British Government, the Northern Ireland Government has decided to activate its powers of internment.

THE DECISION IS OF COURSE FAULKNERS, SINCE THE POWERS BUT IMPLEMENTATION DEPENDS UPON THE 
COOPERATION OF THE UNITS OF THE BRITISH ARMY IN NORTHERN IRELAND, AND HE HAS DECIDED AS HE ALWAYS SAID HE WOULD AFTER CONSULTATION 
WITH US.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_196')
	UNDER WHI H THESE MEASURES ARE TAKEN ARE POWERS OF THE NORTHERN IRELAND GOVERNMENT. 
THE DECISION IS OF COURSE FAULKNERS, SINCE THE POWERS

there is no regular arrangement whereby the UK Goverment is given this information.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6842')
	You asked me :- 
(i) whether the Home Office regularly see the statement setting out the grounds on which an internment order is signed in respect of any individual; 
see this. 
(ii) what are the criteria for interment ? The answer to (i) is that the Home Office do not 
Ireland Minister of Home Affairs. But 
Statutorily it is a matter for the Northern In practice 
Philip Woodfield did see some of the statements which were prepared in the early stages in early September when he want to Northern Ireland on a visit. 
there is no regular arrangement whereby the UK Goverment is given this information.

IRA RECRUITING WILL BENEFIT TO THE EXTENT THAT THE RELUCTANCE TO JOIN OF THOSE WHO FEAR INTERNMENT IS OVERCOME, AND THOSE ON THE RUN WOULD BE ENCOURAGED TO RETURN: THERE ARE ABOUT 140 SUCH PEOPLE OPERATING FROM SOUTH OF THE BODER.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6772')
	IRA RECRUITING WILL BENEFIT TO THE EXTENT THAT THE RELUCTANCE TO JOIN OF THOSE WHO FEAR INTERNMENT IS OVERCOME, AND THOSE ON THE RUN WOULD BE ENCOURAGED TO RETURN: THERE ARE ABOUT 140 SUCH PEOPLE OPERATING FROM SOUTH OF THE BODER.

The persons and categories to whom this applies will be specified from time to time."	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1804')
	"Other terrorists who are known on the strength of reliable 
intelligence, to be an exceptionally serious threat to security, and for whom, in the absence of evidence which could form the basis of a criminal charge, a strong case could be made for an interim custody order. The persons and categories to whom this applies will be specified from time to time."

generally would be stimulated; (d) the sympathies of the minority would rally to the I.R.A. The arguments in favour of internment if the present violence con 
tinues or grows are:(a) whatever unknown I.R.A.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2299')
	The arguments in favour of internment if the present violence con 
tinues or grows are:(a) whatever unknown I.R.A. sympathisers there may be, there in reliable intelligence about the disposition, if not specific activities, of a member of dangerous men

THIS WILL BRING OUT THE REAL ADVANTAGE TO MR LYNCH OF INTRODUCING INTERNMEMT IN THE SOUTH, AID THIS IS OUR ONLY POSITIVE ARGUMENT, SECONDLY, I WOULD PREFER TO OMIT ALL AFTER ’’ WHICH THIS WOULD BRING’.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2207')
	THIS WILL BRING OUT THE REAL ADVANTAGE TO MR LYNCH OF INTRODUCING INTERNMEMT IN THE SOUTH, AID THIS IS OUR ONLY POSITIVE ARGUMENT,

In turn spoke certainly to perhaps also 
to Staff Sergeant Love and passed on the briefing in terms;"	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4944')
	In turn spoke certainly to perhaps also 
to Staff Sergeant Love and passed on the briefing in terms;"because the men were carrying out the task unarmed, and were so few in any one hut, that they should have firm but fair discipline in all huts and ensure hands were visible".

(a) no-one may be detained for more than 28 days without his case being referred for adjudication to an independent,	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9321')
	no-one may be detained for more than 28 days without his case being referred for adjudication to an independent, legally-qualified commissioner

Some of those still in internment were dedicated to the most extreme forms of violence.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7950')
	Some of those still in internment were dedicated to the most extreme forms of violence.

THE SDLP AND OTHERS WHO ARGUED THAT INTERNMENT SHOULD BE ENDED NEEDED TO EXPLAIN WHAT SHOULD BE DONE WITH THE HARD CORE LIKELY TO RETURN TO ACTIVE TERRORISM.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8128')
	THE SDLP AND OTHERS WHO ARGUED THAT INTERNMENT SHOULD BE ENDED NEEDED TO EXPLAIN WHAT SHOULD BE DONE WITH THE HARD CORE LIKELY TO RETURN TO ACTIVE TERRORISM.

First, the reason for interment is simply that while a good 
deal is known about active IRA members, the evidence, such as it is, 
would not inimost cases stand up in court.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6305')
	First, the reason for interment is simply that while a good 
deal is known about active IRA members, the evidence, such as it is, 
would not inimost cases stand up in court. Examples are attached of the kind of information which is known about individuals. Much of it is simply not up to the standards of evidence required in the courts.

In many cases, of course, the law has caught up 
with them and about 40 members of the organisation are at present serving prison sentences, but they represent only a small proportion of membership and further steps had to be taken.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5590')
	Why then should the same processes of law not have their way with 
members of the I.R.A.? In many cases, of course, the law has caught up 
with them and about 40 members of the organisation are at present serving prison sentences, but they represent only a small proportion of membership and further steps had to be taken.

P LiifyHON 21 sente-te:r 19= 
cc. r ’Woodfield r Lindley 
bra irleson	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5723')
	Alr;;o tcIision and a radio oro provided in each hut. All ar IA Cool workin ,order. 
7.-Hetn iuts aro electrically heated and standarde ro conidered adqquate. 
8. earching Thes sercing o vitor ia inevtaein prent crmtaces. 
P LiifyHON 21 sente-te:r 19= 
cc. r ’Woodfield r Lindley 
bra irleson

AT ALL TIMES IT HAS BEEN CUR AIM TC 
ET ALICE ANY CCNEICERASTICNS CF PCLITICS CR PCPULAkITY, AND IT VAE EY THAT SINGLE CFITERION THAT WE CECIDED IN 
.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6925')
	AT ALL TIMES IT HAS BEEN CUR AIM TC 
ET ALICE ANY CCNEICERASTICNS CF PCLITICS CR PCPULAkITY, AND IT VAE EY THAT SINGLE CFITERION THAT WE CECIDED IN 
. Het’ EyTfACRCI"AFY IT IS TAT, EVEN IN CERTAIN 
TC PUT FIFET THE SAFETY CF THIS CCUNTRY AND ALL VHO LIVE IN IT. 
AUGUET LAST THAT THE TERRCRST CCNSPIRACY MUST BE .ChECKED, A1D TAT 1C: UE FCR THAT PURPCEE THE ORDINARY MACHINERY OF IHE Lh- AVCULD PE TC EYPCE TCC MANY PECPLF. TO INTIMIDATlCN A`L CLAT

These, indeed, are the clear objects of those who carry then out.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_50')
	Neither will be possible in a climate of terrorism and 
violence. The outrages to which we have been subjected now threaten our economic life and create every day deeper divisions and antagonism within our community. These, indeed, are the clear objects of those who carry then out.

l’irm action on security io not a subutitutc for constructive change nor is it a sitch of policy: It is 3i..:	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_54')
	l’irm action on security io not a subutitutc for constructive change nor is it a sitch of policy: It is 3i..:hly\htjZ .:’2(cded toallo; the dera’IatCic kroccos to 
prevail over the rule of force. For force stands in the gray of all progress and thc men of force, whatever their 
protestations, are- the enemies of us all.

this annex is to be included only in those copies of the Brigade Order sent to Commanding Officers of units which have to effect arrests. 
To enable you to proeed with arrests under the Special Powers Acts This will provide the cover for any arrests you may have 
- - 
- 
Copy No 1 Copy No 2 Copy No 3 
Copy No 4 7 August 1971 
A DAVIS Lieutenant Colonel for General Officer Commanding	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2181')
	To enable you to proeed with arrests under the Special Powers Acts This will provide the cover for any arrests you may have

modified by the addition of words such as "This oath does not imply any admission by me that I have been concerned in such activities in the past". Such an oath or declaration is important for two 
reasons.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7251')
	Such an oath or declaration is important for two 
reasons. Firstin order to counter the accusation from the RUC and others that we are releasing men who have given no undertaking that they would not immediately rejoin the active ranks ofthe IRA. 
Secondly, that if in fact 
they do so, the case for re-interning them is very much stronger.

If internment were introduced before then it would in our view be essential to proceed simultaneously with the indefinite banning of all political processions.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_220')
	If internment were introduced before then it would in our view be essential to proceed simultaneously with the indefinite banning of all political processions.

The Prime Minister said that the British Government 
were running into similar legal problems to those of the Irish Government.	('PREM_15_1015', 'IMG_8291')
	The Prime Minister said that the British Government 
were running into similar legal problems to those of the Irish Government. They had set up the tribunal to deal with the internees, so that they could in effect move over to a system of detention like that available to the Irish authorities.

People outside A government as the 
same duty to protect its citizens from an internal enemy as it has to protect them from an external enemy in time of war and those who oppose the rights of the individual should also consider the rights of society as a whole.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5589')
	Let us by clear that the I.R.A. have already deprived the community 
in Northern Ireland of certain elementary rights. People in areas where the I.R.A. is most active have been ruthlessly intimidated. those areas fear daily the risk of bring struck down. People outside A government as the 
same duty to protect its citizens from an internal enemy as it has to protect them from an external enemy in time of war and those who oppose the rights of the individual should also consider the rights of society as a whole.

so long as violence persists ?	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6459')
	But should it not add that this means, so far as the Government are concerned, that there can be no question of ending internment unilaterally, i.e. so long as violence persists ?

The decision whether to proceed to internment is yours to make under the 
Constitution but it is our mutual understanding, particularly in view of the involvement of UK forces, that such a decision would be agreed beforehand with us.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_220')
	The decision whether to proceed to internment is yours to make under the 
Constitution but it is our mutual understanding, particularly in view of the involvement of UK forces, that such a decision would be agreed beforehand with us.

that if yourssaresyou may be committing an offenoe". There has also boon discovered in the Afidavit an aide memoirs furnished, 
to the arresting Offioer as to what ho should say in effecting the arrest, and it is in the same torms as Paragraph 3 of the document already referred to.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4939')
	"I am arresting you under the powera co nerred by the Civil Auhorritis (speoisa vowerm) At (Northarn Ireland) 1922". If the person arrestow questiono the Authority for thO Arrest, t’ by asking what ofenooe he hs uommitted or under what Regulation he is avrrsted tho oldier making the arrent is to say " 
am not required to give any furthr explanation. that if yourssaresyou may be committing an offenoe".

Similarly, a person arrested in the first instance under Regulation 11 may be hold in custody for questioning for a period of up to 72 hours before being released, charged or made subject to a detention order.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_1977')
	If a person is arrested under Regulation 10, he may be held in custody for questioning for 48 hours; and if he is then re-arrested under Regulation 11, he may be held for questioning for a further 24 hours. He must then be released unless he is charged or made subject to a detention order. Similarly, a person arrested in the first instance under Regulation 11 may be hold in custody for questioning for a period of up to 72 hours before being released, charged or made subject to a detention order.

Recent arrests have shown clearly that most of those now active in such organisations were recruited before August 1971, when internment was introduced.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4973')
	Recent arrests have shown clearly that most of those now active in such organisations were recruited before August 1971, when internment was introduced.

Arrest Policy 7. 
Reference D applies, except that planned arrest operations are to be 
conducted only as specific and local responses in the event of terrorist outrages.	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1723')
	Reference D applies, except that planned arrest operations are to be 
conducted only as specific and local responses in the event of terrorist outrages.

(imply because of that.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6835')
	I 
Ank the re atin of internment will be very hard to for Protestants teuvalew and indeed as I understand it this might be a ,IIIon,,,I 
, .,,,ae. (imply because of that

The Secretary of State said he fully appreciated their position but he again had to make it clear that only himself and his Cabinet colleagues could be the judges on timing.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7899')
	The Secretary of State said he fully appreciated their position but he again had to make it clear that only himself and his Cabinet colleagues could be the judges on timing.

This is also the view of Mr Dalton, He said that the evidence put before the Advisory Committee by Special Branch was adequate to enable the Committee to reach a judgment, but that it would not convince a court.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6305')
	This is also the view of Mr Dalton, He said that the evidence put before the Advisory Committee by Special Branch was adequate to enable the Committee to reach a judgment, but that it would not convince a court.

The formula at paragraph 4 of the Blue Card must be used. 
The two Regulations from the SPA which are used for planned arrests	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1807')
	The authorisation to carry out the arrest must come from an officer of the RUC of the rank of Superintendent or above and should be in writing. The formula at paragraph 4 of the Blue Card must be used.

Review of internees 17. 
As a result of intelligence from various sources 500 names In order to avoid the impression that there is any unnecessary 
delay in the review of the cases of internees the Home Office is considering whether the review body should be moved to make a further statement on the results of their activities.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_6049')
	In order to avoid the impression that there is any unnecessary 
delay in the review of the cases of internees the Home Office is considering whether the review body should be moved to make a further statement on the results of their activities.

Orders issued to military personnel at the centres should be based Under 
common law a person may use such force as is reasonable in the circumstances in effecting or assisting in the lawful arrest of offenders or suspected offenders or persons unlawfully at large.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2180')
	common law a person may use such force as is reasonable in the circumstances in effecting or assisting in the lawful arrest of offenders or suspected offenders or persons unlawfully at large.

and therefore one is very likely to have an increasing number of incidents along the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5673')
	As a result of the policy of detention and 
presumably internment will follow, the IrA, the groups, units, in the Belfast area have been badly broken up, and many of them have had to go into the Republic of Ireland where of course they are given complete freedom by the authorities down there, to operate, to train, and to move about arms and gelignite, and therefore one is very likely to have an increasing number of incidents along the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.

2. 
Regulation 10 Regulation 10 enables an officer of the Royal Ulster 
Constabulary to authorise the arrest without warrant and detention for a period of not more than 48 hours for the purpose of interrogation.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2174')
	Regulation 10 enables an officer of the Royal Ulster 
Constabulary to authorise the arrest without warrant and detention for a period of not more than 48 hours for the purpose of interrogation. The distinction is made throughout the Regulations between a "police constable" on the one hand and a "police officer" on the other hand and Regulation 10 is therefore wide enough - 
and I think is intended 
to enable a police officer to authorise either a police constable or a member of H.M. Forces to arrest without warrant for this period and for this purpose. It is a valuable regulation and it should not be ignored but it does presuppose a specific authorisation by an officer of the R.U.C.

will be ptrmitted to adopt an aggressivo or buying manuiortownl them.-	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2151')
	ntenos are to be treated fairly but frmly. No monber of the Staif 
ecr.-Powers of Cnimanda .: 
will be ptrmitted to adopt an aggressivo or buying manuiortownl them.-

which might be publicly quoted that internment will he Definitely brought to an end as soon as political stability is restored (unless criminal charges can be preferred in the normal way). If, in return for an undertaking of this kind, Mr. Lynch would publicly put his weight behind 
too badly.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5707')
	The least unprofitable outcome of this part of the discussion would be 
an undertaking by Mr. Faulkner - ? which might be publicly quoted that internment will he Definitely brought to an end as soon as political stability is restored (unless criminal charges can be preferred in the normal way).

A decision on whether a person is "guilty" would be made by persons acting on hearsay in the exercise of their discretion.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_8005')
	It envisages rather that persons against whom there is insufficient evidence to secure a conviction under the criminal law (including the Special Powers Act provisions) should nevertheless be detained if their conduct has involved them in "complicity in any degree with terrorism generally". The ordinary rules of evidence will not be applied and the normal rights of an accused person in the criminal courts will not be available to him. A decision on whether a person is "guilty" would be made by persons acting on hearsay in the exercise of their discretion.

Press reports indicate that this is bein considered by the Government, and that once the releases begin, their number and timing will depend upon the scaling down of violence.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6915')
	t is clear that no agreement will be 
possible unless the package includes measures for a progressive ending of internment, defined in terms of imprisonment without trial or preferred charges. Press reports indicate that this is bein considered by the Government, and that once the releases begin, their number and timing will depend upon the scaling down of violence.

a serious risk of the prolongation of the terrorist campaign.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6968')
	a serious risk of the prolongation of the terrorist campaign.

The Prime Minister has emphasised to me that the Advisory Committee, on which an eminent English lawyer and a local businessman serve with Judge Brown, is able to review all cases, and that he has publicly stated that it would be quite extraordinary if he were not to accept this advice.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_5959')
	The Prime Minister has emphasised to me that the Advisory Committee, on which an eminent English lawyer and a local businessman serve with Judge Brown, is able to review all cases, and that he has publicly stated that it would be quite extraordinary if he were not to accept this advice. He has, in fact, released every internee whose release the Committee has recommended.

The United Kingdom Government’s 
position should be that all reasonable people agreed that those actively associated with terrorism should be locked up.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5604')
	The United Kingdom Government’s 
position should be that all reasonable people agreed that those actively associated with terrorism should be locked up.

contains draft of the be made KREP Belfast asking Mr. Lynch to introduce 
internment in the Republic in parallel with action by HMG, should we decide that the security situation in Northern Ireland requires this step.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2214')
	M.I.F.T. contains draft of the be made KREP Belfast asking Mr. Lynch to introduce 
internment in the Republic in parallel with action by HMG, should we decide that the security situation in Northern Ireland requires this step.

8. 
It will be important to record all such evidence, whether or 
not substantiated, of IRA intimidation: since it will be crucial to the British response to the case being brought by the Irish Government before the Commission on Human Rights at Strasbourg, so far as it is concerned with internment as an alleged violation of Article Five 
- intimidation being the basic reason why the terrorists 
cannot be dealt with through the normal processes of the law.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6699')
	It will be important to record all such evidence, whether or 
not substantiated, of IRA intimidation: since it will be crucial to the British response to the case being brought by the Irish Government before the Commission on Human Rights at Strasbourg, so far as it is concerned with internment as an alleged violation of Article Five 
- intimidation being the basic reason why the terrorists 
cannot be dealt with through the normal processes of the law.

It should be clearly 
understood that they were the victims of the IRA.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_145')
	The Home Secretary replied that if it were not for the IRA 
campaign these people would still be in their own homes. It should be clearly 
understood that they were the victims of the IRA.

IF H.M.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_169')
	IF H.M.G. CAN COMMIT THEMSELVES PUBLICLY TO A GUARANTEE THAT MR FAULKNER’S FINE WORDS WILL BE RAPIDLY TRANSLATED INTO SPECIFIC AND PRACTICAL AS DISTINCT FROM PAPER REFORMS, INTERNMENT WILL BE SEEN HERE TO HAVE AN EXPLICIT POSITIVE PURPOSE AS WELL AS THE NEGATIVE ONE OF ENDING TERRORISM,

He has, in fact, released every internee whose release the Committee has recommended.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_6019')
	The Prime Minister has emphasised to me that the Advisory Committee, on which an eminent English lawyer and a local businessman serve with Judge Brown, is able to review all cases, and that he has publicly stated that it would be quite extraordinary if he were not to accept this advice. He has, in fact, released every internee whose release the Committee has recommended.

They are expected to show that 110 cases have been reviewed and 10 internees have been recommended for release.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_6031')
	They are expected to show that 110 cases have been reviewed and 10 internees have been recommended for release. 9. 
Some of the cases are taking a long time to prepare. The review 
body will meet as often as is necessary to avoid a backlog of prepared cases.

9. 
been found necessary.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_187')
	been found necessary.

6. 
DECISION IS HIS, THOUGH HE HAS REACHED IT AFTER CONSULTATION WITH US.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	DECISION IS HIS, THOUGH HE HAS REACHED IT AFTER CONSULTATION WITH US. 
THAT IS HIS JUDGEMENT OF THE SITUATION, AND OF COURSE THE

o.c. Sir William Wield Mr Woodfield Mr Platt 
Mr Howard-Drake Wanted List It is interesting to note that category III of the wanted list, which 
is defined by the RUC as: "Those holding key positions in terrorist organisations who are known to be responsible for the direction and performance of acts of violence by others, but against whom there is no evidence or intelligence of personal involvement" contains only 31 names.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1867')
	"Those holding key positions in terrorist organisations who are known to be responsible for the direction and performance of acts of violence by others, but against whom there is no evidence or intelligence of personal involvement" contains only 31 names.

The Advisory Committee has been making good headway and to date has reviewed 99 cases; of these they have recommended release for 10 men and continued internment for 83 with consideration deferred for the remaining 6. Of the 10 cases recommended for release 7 men have actually been sent home and release has been directed in one other case; 2 cases are at present under my consideration.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_6017')
	My letter of 14 October ended with a reference to the Advisory Committee on Internment. The Advisory Committee has been making good headway and to date has reviewed 99 cases; of these they have recommended release for 10 men and continued internment for 83 with consideration deferred for the remaining 6. Of the 10 cases recommended for release 7 men have actually been sent home and release has been directed in one other case; 2 cases are at present under my consideration.

7. This is not action taken against any responsible and las- 
abiding section of the community.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_51')
	This is not action taken against any responsible and las- 
abiding section of the community.

It was, therefore, important that the Advisory Council should be seen to be working rapidly and justly, with the internees being allowed all proper facilities for legal representation and access to relevant documents.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6174')
	It was, therefore, important that the Advisory Council should be seen to be working rapidly and justly, with the internees being allowed all proper facilities for legal representation and access to relevant documents.

TY rEASURES PLUS I.1TE NMEflT MIGHT SUCCEED ’11 CUSHItG THE IRA.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6151')
	WHEN MCCAnt GAVE -E THE TEXT OF MR LYNCH’S ’ESSAGE AND HAD SPOKEN 0t THE A’OVE LINES, I ASKED HIM IF HE HAD EVER CONSI)ERED THE POSSIBILITY THAT OUR PRESE T PROCRAMME CF SECUr!TY rEASURES PLUS I.1TE NMEflT MIGHT SUCCEED ’11 CUSHItG THE IRA.

d. 
intelligence, are known to be an exceptionally serious threat to security.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1808')
	intelligence, are known to be an exceptionally serious threat to securit

would provide: 
(d) disregarding the possible needs of a full time UDR battalion,	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2256')
	in the light of the continuing high force levels in Northern Ireland in the foreseeable future, and of the indifferent living conditions which some units have to endure, the Ministry of Defence have a separate though related interest in the accommodation which an internment camp, while vacant, would provide

Any person would be allowed to effect an arrest without warrant if there was reasonable suspicion complicity in the conduct referred to; and any list of suspects published by the authority of the Chief Constable or an Assistant Chief Constable of the RUC would be conclusive evidence that there was reasonable suspicion.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7787')
	Any person would be allowed to effect an arrest without warrant if there was reasonable suspicion complicity in the conduct referred to; and any list of suspects published by the authority of the Chief Constable or an Assistant Chief Constable of the RUC would be conclusive evidence that there was reasonable suspicion.

In addition, they intend at an early date to introduce provisions under the Special Powers Act to set up a tribunal to deal with persons suspected of participation in terrorist activities by means of a procedure which will provide maximum safeguards for the protection of the individual and will eliminate the objectionable features of internment, notably judgment by executive decision alone, but which will be matched to the special conditions which unfortunately obtain in Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8053')
	In addition, they intend at an early date to introduce provisions under the Special Powers Act to set up a tribunal to deal with persons suspected of participation in terrorist activities by means of a procedure which will provide maximum safeguards for the protection of the individual and will eliminate the objectionable features of internment, notably judgment by executive decision alone, but which will be matched to the special conditions which unfortunately obtain in Northern Ireland.

are banned until further notice.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2195')
	They will at the same time announce that all marche 
and parades. are banned until further notice.

The most significant of these are the trial of terrorist offences by a judge sitting alone, restrictions on the granting of bail and the admissibility of confessions and certain written statements.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_160')
	The most significant of these are the trial of terrorist offences by a judge sitting alone, restrictions on the granting of bail and the admissibility of confessions and certain written statements.

The Prime Minister of Northern Ireland and the Home Secretary will from now on meet at regular intervals to assess the situation, and - taking into account in particular any appreciable de-escalation of violence, but also any moves by other sections and groups to normalise public life - will consider together when and in what numbers further internees of lower risk rating may be released.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7246')
	The Prime Minister of Northern Ireland and the Home Secretary will from now on meet at regular intervals to assess the situation, and - taking into account in particular any appreciable de-escalation of violence, but also any moves by other sections and groups to normalise public life - will consider together when and in what numbers further internees of lower risk rating may be released.

The Secretary of State’s warnings about the difficulties of further 
large scale internment and detention have clearly been taken to heart and as a result the list seems to have been carefully sifted to include only key figures.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1867')
	The Secretary of State’s warnings about the difficulties of further 
large scale internment and detention have clearly been taken to heart and as a result the list seems to have been carefully sifted to include only key figures.

by British troops= 
1 
b. because it is temporary accommodation,	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2265')
	to authenticate the cover story, it i essential that 
the camp should be soen to be performing its secondary role; it will, thereforoQ need to be ocupid, as much as possible, by British troops= 
1 
b. because it is temporary accommodation, and not deigned to troop requirements’or standard, and because’there is no security of ’tenure (le troops would have to vaoato it if i -ere required for its primary role),

An immediate total response to the SDLP demands was not possible, but without any commitment hatever he did not rule out the possibility of taking some action to meet their demands.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7951')
	It was not true that the SDLP had achieved nothing; some 700 out of 1,000 internees had already been released. 
The SDLP should not 
underestimate the strength of the views opposing them and the Secretary of State. They must also remember that as a member of the Cabinet he was not an entirely free agent. An immediate total response to the SDLP demands was not possible, but without any commitment hatever he did not rule out the possibility of taking some action to meet their demands.

Fact is of course that there is very strong pressure within the Unionist Party in the North upon Mr. Faulkner to take this further step and this is factor in situation.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2215')
	Fact is of course that there is very strong pressure within the Unionist Party in the North upon Mr. Faulkner to take this further step and this is factor in situation.

As for the hard core of internees who could not safely be released, the hope would of course be to acquire sufficient evidence, in the improved situation, to be able to prosecute most of them.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6574')
	As for the hard core of internees who could not safely be released, the hope would of course be to acquire sufficient evidence, in the improved situation, to be able to prosecute most of them.

Current situation The internment operation has been a considerable success technically 
Those detained include a considerable number of both the Goulding and Brady wings of the IRA.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5885')
	The internment operation has been a considerable success technically 
Those detained include a considerable number of both the Goulding and Brady wings of the IRA. The evidence is that both wings have been much more seriously disrupted than statements from IRA sources suggest, and while they will undoubtedly continue to give trouble, there is reasonable hope that, with increased vigilance at the border, terrorist activity wi11 now be at a lower level than in the weeks before internment.

that there was no prospect of that, and I could not therefore hold out this possibility as an inducement to Faulkner to hold his hand.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_187')
	that there was no prospect of that, and I could not therefore hold out this possibility as an inducement to Faulkner to hold his hand.

GENERAL TUZO SAID THAT THE PAPER SIMPLY REPRESENTED THE VIEWS OF THE ARMY AND THE RUC ON THE SECURITY ASPECT.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6773')
	GENERAL TUZO SAID THAT THE PAPER SIMPLY REPRESENTED THE VIEWS OF THE ARMY AND THE RUC ON THE SECURITY ASPECT.

They should not forget the intense antagonisms he had aroused in the majority community over the previous four months by adopting policies, many of which were consistent with the views of the SDLP.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7948')
	They should not forget the intense antagonisms he had aroused in the majority community over the previous four months by adopting policies, many of which were consistent with the views of the SDLP.

AS LONG AS ACTIVE TERRORISM PERSISTS AND BOMBING AND SHOOTING CONTINUE, WE MUST RETAIN THE POWER TO ARREST AND INTERN THOSE WHO THERE IS GOOD REASON TO BELIEVE ARE ACTIVELY INVOLVED.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7209')
	AS LONG AS ACTIVE TERRORISM PERSISTS AND BOMBING AND SHOOTING CONTINUE, WE MUST RETAIN THE POWER TO ARREST AND INTERN THOSE WHO THERE IS GOOD REASON TO BELIEVE ARE ACTIVELY INVOLVED.

Period of Detention for Interrogation 18. If a person is arrested under Regulation 10, he may be held in custody for questioning for 48 hours; and if he is then re-arrested under Regulation 11, he may be held for questioning for a further 24 hours.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_1977')
	If a person is arrested under Regulation 10, he may be held in custody for questioning for 48 hours; and if he is then re-arrested under Regulation 11, he may be held for questioning for a further 24 hours. He must then be released unless he is charged or made subject to a detention order. Similarly, a person arrested in the first instance under Regulation 11 may be hold in custody for questioning for a period of up to 72 hours before being released, charged or made subject to a detention order.

We are also reaching the point where areas of Belfast are being freed of IRA dominance and intimidation.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6956')
	We are also reaching the point where areas of Belfast are being freed of IRA dominance and intimidation.

and thereby save the lives of members of the security forces and of the civil population". 
15. In the present circumstances of Northern Ireland,	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5164')
	In the present circumstances of Northern Ireland, as described in 
paragraphs 3-5 of this note, it is imperative to obtain all available intelligence in order to save the lives of civilians and members of the security forces; and it is therefore essential to interrogate suspects who are believed to have essential information.

2. ARE BANNED UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	ANNED UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE. 
HE WILL AT THE SAME TIME ANOUNCE THAT ALL MARCHES AND PARADES

It has done what it was 
intended to do; and, although there may still be a long haul ahead, the chance of gradually bringing terrorism to an end are now reasonably good.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6207')
	In principle internment has been a success. It has done what it was 
intended to do; and, although there may still be a long haul ahead, the chance of gradually bringing terrorism to an end are now reasonably good.

4. 
The policy regarding leading notables in the IRA such as John Stephenson 
is that they should be arrested if that is possible without causing disproportionate disorder, even if no evidence of a criminal offence is available. The Northern Ireland ffice is considering further guidance on this problem, in particular dealing with the possibilities of extradition or transfer of persons arrested to the Republic and the attitude to be adopted	('PREM_15_1008', 'IMG_7508')
	The policy regarding leading notables in the IRA such as John Stephenson 
is that they should be arrested if that is possible without causing disproportionate disorder, even if no evidence of a criminal offence is available.

4. An experienced governor of this new compound could also help to decide 
whether the paper sift of the less dangerous was reasonably accurate and devise a regime to prepare the men for release.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4980')
	An experienced governor of this new compound could also help to decide 
whether the paper sift of the less dangerous was reasonably accurate and devise a regime to prepare the men for release.

DRAFT MESSAGE TO MR. NIXON I am sending you this message to let you know 
that the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland will very shortly be announcing that, in the light of the latest assessment of the security situation in Northern Ireland and all other relevant factors, and after consultation with the British Government, the Northern Ireland Government has decided to activate its powers of internment.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_204')
	I am sending you this message to let you know 
that the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland will very shortly be announcing that, in the light of the latest assessment of the security situation in Northern Ireland and all other relevant factors, and after consultation with the British Government, the Northern Ireland Government has decided to activate its powers of internment.

The Prime Minister said that the Army statement had been concerned to deny the wide general allegations which had been made, and was justified in so doing.	('PREM_15_1015', 'IMG_8291')
	The Prime Minister said that the Army statement had been concerned to deny the wide general allegations which had been made, and was justified in so doing.

6. THAT IS HIS JUDGEMENT OF THE SITUATION 
, AND OF COURSE 
THE DECISION IS HIS, THOUGH HE HAS REACHED IT AFTER CONSULTATION WITH US.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_176')
	THAT IS HIS JUDGEMENT OF THE SITUATION 
, AND OF COURSE 
THE DECISION IS HIS, THOUGH HE HAS REACHED IT AFTER CONSULTATION WITH US.

TREATMENT OF DETAINEES 
5. Broad principles for the treatment of persons under arrest or detention 
during civil disturbances are laid down in Article 3 of The Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War (1949). 
Military personnel 
will follow these principles when conducting interrogation.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5026')
	Broad principles for the treatment of persons under arrest or detention 
during civil disturbances are laid down in Article 3 of The Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War (1949). 
Military personnel 
will follow these principles when conducting interrogation. are 
(a) These principles 
Persons taking no active part in hostilities shall in all circumstances be treated humanely without any adverse distinction founded on race, colour, religion or faith, sex, birth, wealth or any other similar criteria.

It would also be valuable to have any useful quotations that exit on internment made by Labour spokesmen.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5759')
	I should like details of when internment has been used previously. 
or threatened, on either side of he border, and of the results of its use. It would also be valuable to have any useful quotations that exit on internment made by Labour spokesmen.

15. A compromise (which would rovide the sanction needed to support interrogation but would have much less effect in keeping terrorists out of circulation) would be to keep in custody a much smaller number (say 300) comprising the most important organisers of subversion and the most dangerous gunmen and bombers.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_32')
	A compromise (which would rovide the sanction needed to support interrogation but would have much less effect in keeping terrorists out of circulation) would be to keep in custody a much smaller number (say 300) comprising the most important organisers of subversion and the most dangerous gunmen and bombers.

19. 
As a corollary to a run-down in the numbers at present 
interned, it would be sensible to have some limitation on, if not a complete suspension of, further arrests under the Special Powers Act.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6813')
	As a corollary to a run-down in the numbers at present 
interned, it would be sensible to have some limitation on, if not a complete suspension of, further arrests under the Special Powers Act.

Their release will be conditional on an undertaking not to take part in or encourage violence or illegal action.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7214')
	It is Her Majesty’s Government’s intention to release as soon as 
possible those internees about whom there is a reasonable degree of doubt as to the danger to security that their release would pose. Their release will be conditional on an undertaking not to take part in or encourage violence or illegal action.

They would be subject to examination and cross-examination.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6754')
	They would be subject to examination and cross-examination.

11. We also understand that the Northern Ireland Government have under consideration a number of proposals for improving the internment procedure, e. g. by using a Tribunal not only to review the cases of persons already interned but to make recommendations on whether internment orders should be served on persons detained.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6704')
	We also understand that the Northern Ireland Government have under consideration a number of proposals for improving the internment procedure, e. g. by using a Tribunal not only to review the cases of persons already interned but to make recommendations on whether internment orders should be served on persons detained.

Subject to Mr. Whitelaw’s views, 
there is considerable attraction in a fairly open statement of support by the Pope for the White Paper proposals; and he may be more willing to speak out if he can be persuaded that we have taken positive steps on internment.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9334')
	A personal explanation from you of what we have done on internment will make much more of an impact on the Pope than Mr. Crawley’s discussions with Vatican officials. 
Subject to Mr. Whitelaw’s views, 
there is considerable attraction in a fairly open statement of support by the Pope for the White Paper proposals; and he may be more willing to speak out if he can be persuaded that we have taken positive steps on internment.

(2) USE OF TECHNIQUES IN OTHER CIRCUMSTANCES.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_2103')
	(2) USE OF TECHNIQUES IN OTHER CIRCUMSTANCES. SOME OF THE TECHNIQUES DISCUSSED IN THE PARKER REPORT MAY CONTINUE TO BE USED FOR SHORT PERIODS FOR PURPOSES OTHER THAN THOSE OF INTERROGATION WITH WHICH THE REPORT WAS CONCERNED. WALL-STANDING MAY BE USED FOR A SHORT TIME WHEN PEOPLE ARE BEING SEARCHED TO ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT ARMED HOODING OR BLANKETING MAY BE USED TO PROTECT A MAN IN CUSTODY FROM BEING RECOGNISED IF HE IS WILLING TO BE CONCEALED IN THIS WAY. AS RECOMMENDED IN PARAGRAPH 36 OF THE MAJORITY REPORT, GUIDELINES HAVE BEEN ISSUED TO SERVICE PERSONNEL IN RESPECT OF THE USE OF THESE TECHNIQUES IN CIRCUMSTANCES OF THIS

I replied that I 
shared the view of the Army that it was vital to get on top of the IRA before making any move in this direction.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6957')
	I replied that I 
shared the view of the Army that it was vital to get on top of the IRA before making any move in this direction

(c) in the light of the continuing high force levels in Northern Ireland in the foreseeable future,	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2256')
	in the light of the continuing high force levels in Northern Ireland in the foreseeable future, and of the indifferent living conditions which some units have to endure, the Ministry of Defence have a separate though related interest in the accommodation which an internment camp, while vacant, would provide

then if the reasons for this could be explained Ministers would be prepared to defend them: if as Mr Johnston had suggested,	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1932')
	There were other aspects of the interrogation process (the manner of accommodating the prisoner between interrogations etc) where it might be difficult for Ministers to defend the present procedure 
- but if these procedures were valuable to Special Branch, 
then if the reasons for this could be explained Ministers would be prepared to defend them:

sympathisers there may be, there in reliable intelligence about the disposition, if not specific activities, of a member of dangerous men; 
(b) the normal processes of investigation, detection and trial are obstructed by a wall of silence created either by intimidation or sympathy (but those Metropolitan Police C.I.D.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2299')
	whatever unknown I.R.A. sympathisers there may be, there in reliable intelligence about the disposition, if not specific activities, of a member of dangerous men; 
(b) the normal processes of investigation, detection and trial are obstructed by a wall of silence created either by intimidation or sympathy (but those Metropolitan Police C.I.D. may have more succes in getting evidence).

Alr;;o tcIision and a radio oro provided in each hut.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5723')
	Alr;;o tcIision and a radio oro provided in each hut. All ar IA Cool workin ,order. 
7.-Hetn iuts aro electrically heated and standarde ro conidered adqquate. 
8. earching Thes sercing o vitor ia inevtaein prent crmtaces. 
P LiifyHON 21 sente-te:r 19= 
cc. r ’Woodfield r Lindley 
bra irleson

Where these procedures contain departures from the normal judicial process 
the commissioners’ inquiries are in private, 
for example, and the person who is the subject of the enquiry may be excluded from parts of it) these are necessary because, as the Commission reported, witnesses will not give evidence in the ordinary courts.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9321')
	Where these procedures contain departures from the normal judicial process 
the commissioners’ inquiries are in private, 
for example, and the person who is the subject of the enquiry may be excluded from parts of it) these are necessary because, as the Commission reported, witnesses will not give evidence in the ordinary courts.

In addition it would be desirable to take this opportunity to prohibit rifle clubs.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_211')
	In addition it would be desirable to take this opportunity to prohibit rifle clubs.

(5) 
b. c. Carrying out selective arrests d intelligence, laintain pressure on the 32A. Initiate a vigorous IP capai gn to discredit the loyalist 
cause and its violent supporters, and to"’0t e eratet reject them, 
11. Depending upon the number of Frotestat detainees on parole at 
the time, consideration should be given to calling thm back, Whether or not this was agreed to and implemented, 
, itisclearthat 
the total prison population would be unlkely to be sigificantly less, a and probably ould be appreciably ore tha today; precise figures would depend on the timing of the putbrea of ’olece, the nbers releared by 51I, the numbers of PRA detai orImprionedbeforetre 
by, archeongood	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1506')
	Carrying out selective arrests d intelligence, laintain pressure on the 32A. Initiate a vigorous IP capai gn to discredit the loyalist 
cause and its violent supporters, and to"’0t e eratet reject them, 
11. Depending upon the number of Frotestat detainees on parole at 
the time, consideration should be given to calling thm back, Whether or not this was agreed to and implemented, 
, itisclearthat 
the total prison population would be unlkely to be sigificantly less, a and probably ould be appreciably ore tha today; precise figures would depend on the timing of the putbrea of ’olece, the nbers releared by 51I, the numbers of PRA detai orImprionedbeforetre 
by, archeongoo

The other reservation is that one cannot entirely rule out the possibility that in a few cases the information provided to the Special Branch might have been prompted by personal spite, 
or something similar, on the part of the informants.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6917')
	The information on which recommendations for internment 
are made by the RUC Special Branch is naturally held by the Special Branch themselves. 
But a senior Army intelligence 
officer has always had complete access to these records; and he is satisfied that, subject to two reservations, virtually all the internees are IRA members. 
The first is that three 
of the internees cannot be assigned to specific appointments in the IRA’s order of battle, though the dossiers concerned show that the Special Branch regard two of them as members of the IRA and the third as having strong links with the IRA. The other reservation is that one cannot entirely rule out the possibility that in a few cases the information provided to the Special Branch might have been prompted by personal spite, 
or something similar, on the part of the informants.

Is the next step some private discussion with Mr. Lynch in order to 
try to establish whether, in return for a concession on internment, he would be prepared to take stronger action in the South and so help us to build up the kind of political pressure which would compel Mr. Faulkner either to co-operate in the wholesale reform which the Home Secretary advocates or at least not to stand in its way? 
7th March, 1972	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6887')
	Is the next step some private discussion with Mr. Lynch in order to 
try to establish whether, in return for a concession on internment, he would be prepared to take stronger action in the South and so help us to build up the kind of political pressure which would compel Mr. Faulkner either to co-operate in the wholesale reform which the Home Secretary advocates or at least not to stand in its way?

(b) 
Planning to legislate either in the overspill of the present Session or at the beginning of the next Session, with the corollary that in the interim the use of detention under the existing Regulation 11 (perhaps with some amendment which could be made during the Recess under the urgency procedure, subject to Affirmative Resolution when Parliament reassembles) might be justified by a declaration of an intention to introduce new legislation at an early date.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7924')
	Planning to legislate either in the overspill of the present Session or at the beginning of the next Session, with the corollary that in the interim the use of detention under the existing Regulation 11 (perhaps with some amendment which could be made during the Recess under the urgency procedure, subject to Affirmative Resolution when Parliament reassembles) might be justified by a declaration of an intention to introduce new legislation at an early date.

But the Co-ordinator does not propose to say too much himself in thi preliminary briefing about the results obtained from interrogation in Northern Ireland because he thinks that this will come most 
effectively from the GOC,	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5073')
	But the Co-ordinator does not propose to say too much himself in thi preliminary briefing about the results obtained from interrogation in Northern Ireland because he thinks that this will come most 
effectively from the GOC, Northern Ireland, who can brief the Committee on the overall military situation in Northern Ireland as it was before the introduction of internment and as it is now, bringing out the general state of intelligence before interrogation was used and the improvement that has been achieved since.

10. 
An advisory committee under Regulation 12 of the Special Powers 
Act has been set up under the chairmanship of His Honour Judge Brown to review the cases of all those against whom internment orders are made.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5162')
	An advisory committee under Regulation 12 of the Special Powers 
Act has been set up under the chairmanship of His Honour Judge Brown to review the cases of all those against whom internment orders are made.

The Chief Constable and the GOC would be given 
the opportunity to comment on each case just before the revocation orders were submitted for signature, so that the local situation can be taken into account in relation to each man released.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7250')
	The Chief Constable and the GOC would be given 
the opportunity to comment on each case just before the revocation orders were submitted for signature, so that the local situation can be taken into account in relation to each man released.

This is not necessarily 
an unsatisfactory position for the Government, at least in the short term, since public opinion is not likely to agree that the Government should let loose a lot of gunmen and terrorists in return for no more than a promise merely to take part in inter-Party talks without any assurance that they will have a successful outcome.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6459')
	This is not necessarily 
an unsatisfactory position for the Government, at least in the short term, since public opinion is not likely to agree that the Government should let loose a lot of gunmen and terrorists in return for no more than a promise merely to take part in inter-Party talks without any assurance that they will have a successful outcome.

I attach a note which reveals very little about 
the reasons for the three men being interned but does set at rest any anxiety about their physical condition.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5721')
	We have discovered a little detail about the three internees ment- 
ioned in the "Sunday Times" article quoted by the Leader of the Opposition in yesterday’s debate. 
I attach a note which reveals very little about 
the reasons for the three men being interned but does set at rest any anxiety about their physical condition.

It would have to be made clear in any pronouncements, official or unofficial, on internment that the subject was primarily the responsibility of the Northern Ireland Government.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6575')
	It would have to be made clear in any pronouncements, official or unofficial, on internment that the subject was primarily the responsibility of the Northern Ireland Government.

explain the new procedures for detention and the legislative action now being taken in the light of the Diplock Report.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9353')
	explain the new procedures for detention and the legislative action now being taken in the light of the Diplock Report

There will still, however, remain the problem of the "hard core". (3) 
Following the renewed allegations of brutality by the security forces 
and the doubt surrounding the validity of a number of confessions, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland was asked to put forward proposals (with a view to a decision at this meeting) about the desirability of allowing the forms of interrogation employed hitherto by the RUC Special Branch to continue.	('PREM_15_1008', 'IMG_7595')
	The Secretary of State for Northern Ireland might report on progress 
with the release of internees, with particular reference to the possibility (which he is considering) of a measure of accelerated release. There will still, however, remain the problem of the "hard core".

2. 
In spite of the continued bombings and shootings there is ample evidence 
that the effectiveness of the IRA,especially in the Belfast area where the security forces have recently concentrated their efforts, has been very seriously reduced.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6957')
	In spite of the continued bombings and shootings there is ample evidence 
that the effectiveness of the IRA,especially in the Belfast area where the security forces have recently concentrated their efforts, has been very seriously reduced. 
The removal from circulation of 700 - 800 members of the 
two main organizations is creating increasing problems for them in terms both of morale and losses of key personnel.

and thoStormont Govornmont are committed; and the alternative 
i use of.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2263')
	he need for an nternont’ < 
camp as an instrument of the fight against terrorism .to which: both H.I.G. and thoStormont Govornmont are committed; and the alternative 
i use of. the buildings as accommodation for ritiah troops.

Mr. Faulkner said that the flagrant activity He was worried 
He said that he found it In his view internment was almost .	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2220')
	Mr. Faulkner said that the flagrant activity He was worried 
He said that he found it In his view internment was almost

However, if at the PO a subject 
is recommended for extended uestioning beyond a period of 48 hours after arrest, the approval of the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland will be sought.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7987')
	There is no statutory time limit to the period for which persons arrested under Regulation 11 of the Special Powers Act can be held for interrogation. 
However, if at the PO a subject 
is recommended for extended uestioning beyond a period of 48 hours after arrest, the approval of the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland will be sought.

For force stands in the way of all rcgres and the nen of force, whatever their Pr0te"tations, arc the erettiea of us all.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2166')
	For force stands in the way of all rcgres and the nen of force, whatever their Pr0te"tations, arc the erettiea of us all.

It is not possible at the moment to define the categories which I will be prepared to consider for interim custody and for the time being I will consider applications in respect of them on their merits."	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1804')
	"In view of recent developments, Protestant terrorists may fall to be dealt with under the new order. It is not possible at the moment to define the categories which I will be prepared to consider for interim custody and for the time being I will consider applications in respect of them on their merits."

3. THERE WILL BE A SEPARATE ANNOUNCEMENT THAT ALL OUTSTANDING APPLICATIONS TO START RIFLE CLUBS ARE BEING REFUSED, AND THAT NO NEW APPLICATIONS WILL BE CONSIDERED.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_179')
	THERE WILL BE A SEPARATE ANNOUNCEMENT THAT ALL OUTSTANDING APPLICATIONS TO START RIFLE CLUBS ARE BEING REFUSED, AND THAT NO NEW APPLICATIONS WILL BE CONSIDERED.

6. It is suggested, therefore, that a category defined along the following li 
to be arrested:- 
"Other terrorists (as specified from time to time by the Secretary of State) who are known, on the strength of reliable intelligence to be an exceptionally serious threat to security, and for whom, in the absence of evidence which could form the basis of a criminal charge, a strong case could be made for an Interim Custody Order."	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1815')
	Other terrorists (as specified from time to time by the Secretary of State) who are known, on the strength of reliable intelligence to be an exceptionally serious threat to security, and for whom, in the absence of evidence which could form the basis of a criminal charge, a strong case could be made for an Interim Custody Order."

In connection with winning the confidence of the Roman 
Catholic community, the Prime Minister said that the British Government disliked internment just as much as anyone else.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8244')
	In connection with winning the confidence of the Roman 
Catholic community, the Prime Minister said that the British Government disliked internment just as much as anyone else.

This lead us to the current situation where the main issue is, I think it 
is important to recall the position 
before internment was introduced, which I believe can be shown to have been one in which violence was already escalating very rapidly.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5759')
	I think it 
is important to recall the position 
before internment was introduced, which I believe can be shown to have been one in which violence was already escalating very rapidly. 
If so, 
this should be brought but in order to answer the argument that internment has made the security situation worse.

There has been similar pressure to take powers to proscribe Arab terrorist organisations.	('PREM_15_1016', 'IMG_8589')
	It has been suggested that this gap should be closed by proscribing 
the I.R.A. in this country, a coursewhich has been pressed on me on general grounds from a variety of quarters. There has been similar pressure to take powers to proscribe Arab terrorist organisations.

Powers Act.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_5991')
	Powers Act.

If an answer is given which causes the soldier to suspect the person of falling into one of the categories in paragraph 7 above, he should arrest him under Regulation 11 of the SPA, remembering to use the appropriate formula from paragraph 6 of the Blue Card.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1808')
	If an answer is given which causes the soldier to suspect the person of falling into one of the categories in paragraph 7 above, he should arrest him under Regulation 11 of the SPA, remembering to use the appropriate formula from paragraph 6 of the Blue Card. If the answers given do not raise a sufficient suspicion to justify arrest he must be allowed to go on his way immediately. If however the passer-by refuses to stop or to answer the questions he is committing an offence against the SPA Regulations and the soldier can arrest him under Regulation 11 of the SPA on that ground.

In Feeny 4 RC (no trace) were arrested under SPA 11. There were meetings in Armagh and Dungiven.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_145')
	In Feeny 4 RC (no trace) were arrested under SPA 11.

All this without prejudice to the continued need to put 
internees on trial, wherever possible under the existing law.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4925')
	All this without prejudice to the continued need to put 
internees on trial, wherever possible under the existing law.

Should the "wanted list" be reviewed (like the list of internees) in order to separate active terrorists from those who may have done little more than aid and abet?	('PREM_15_1006', 'IMG_7332')
	Should the "wanted list" be reviewed (like the list of internees) in order to separate active terrorists from those who may have done little more than aid and abet?

6. In spite of successes against the IRA it may still be claimed that the present strategy of attrition offers steadily diminishing returns in terms of opportunities for a political settlement.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6958')
	In spite of successes against the IRA it may still be claimed that the present strategy of attrition offers steadily diminishing returns in terms of opportunities for a political settlement.

2. 
Government of the Irish Republic to reactivate internment powers (paragraph 3), it is thought to be too much to hope that he would be prepared to do so specifically to match an effort on our part (see paragraph 5 of NI(71) 2). 3. 
Although Mr. Lynch sometime ago announced the readiness of the We have been told that Major Chichester-Clark is not pressing 
for these powers and would not do so unless the Security Forces advised him to do so.	('PREM_15_476', 'IMG_5453')
	Government of the Irish Republic to reactivate internment powers (paragraph 3), it is thought to be too much to hope that he would be prepared to do so specifically to match an effort on our part (see paragraph 5 of NI(71) 2). 3. 
Although Mr. Lynch sometime ago announced the readiness of the We have been told that Major Chichester-Clark is not pressing 
for these powers and would not do so unless the Security Forces advised him to do so.

YOU WILL BY NOW BE AWARE OF THE STATEMENT ISSUED LAST 
NIGHT BY THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR NORTHERN IRELAND ON SECURITY POLICY, OF WHICH I ATTACH A COPY.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8060')
	OU WILL BY NOW BE AWARE OF THE STATEMENT ISSUED LAST 
NIGHT BY THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR NORTHERN IRELAND ON SECURITY POLICY, OF WHICH I ATTACH A COPY.

11. HE DID NOT BELIEVE THAT THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT WOULD PERMIT SITUATION IN WHICH THEIR ARMY WOULD NOT PROTECT PEOPLE WHOM THEY CALMED TO BE THEIR CITIZENS.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_45')
	HE DID NOT BELIEVE THAT THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT WOULD PERMIT SITUATION IN WHICH THEIR ARMY WOULD NOT PROTECT PEOPLE WHOM THEY CALMED TO BE THEIR CITIZENS.

The arrests 
had brought a dramatic reduction in the number of attacks on property by explosives, and the IRA in Belfast were, temporarily at any rate, seriously disorganised.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5871')
	The arrests 
had brought a dramatic reduction in the number of attacks on property by explosives, and the IRA in Belfast were, temporarily at any rate, seriously disorganised.

’’PEOPLE THROUGHOUT THE UNITED KINGDOM ARE BEGINNING TO APPRECIATE THAT DEMOCRACY IS AT STAKE.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6926')
	PEOPLE THROUGHOUT THE UNITED KINGDOM ARE BEGINNING TO APPRECIATE THAT DEMOCRACY IS AT STAKE.

south of the border, which will of course be reinforced from the north. 10. Our hope is that these measures can be strictly temporary, will serve to re-establish a situation in which the many social and other reforms that have been introduced and are still to come are recognised at their true value,	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_187')
	Our hope is that these measures can be strictly temporary, will serve to re-establish a situation in which the many social and other reforms that have been introduced and are still to come are recognised at their true value,

INTELLIGENCE, AND HAS IMPEDED THE COURSE OF JUSTICE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_180')
	THERE IS ALSO THE FACT THAT THE INTIMIDATION OF THE POPULATION BY THE TERRORISTS HAS BEEN INCREASINGLY HAMPERING THE PROCESS OF GATHERING. INTELLIGENCE, AND HAS IMPEDED THE COURSE OF JUSTICE.

As at present it will help me in considering each application 
if it is accompanied by a factual statement of the 
reasons why a detention order is considered necessary, indicating inter alia the extent to which the individual concerned is currently actively engaged in terrorist activity and the possibility of criminal charges being preferred.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1856')
	As at present it will help me in considering each application 
if it is accompanied by a factual statement of the 
reasons why a detention order is considered necessary, indicating inter alia the extent to which the individual concerned is currently actively engaged in terrorist activity and the possibility of criminal charges being preferred.

But I simply don’t see how we can abandon internment at this stage.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6306')
	But I simply don’t see how we can abandon internment at this stage.

c. Adminstrative arrangements for running the centre including 
the accommodation, medical care and messing of all persons in the centre.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2179')
	Adminstrative arrangements for running the centre including 
the accommodation, medical care and messing of all persons in the centre. There must be a full medical check by a doctor of every arrested person when he enters the centre.

Both the Army and the RUC took the view that their instructions to personnel should ensure that only the more important terrorists, or those who were likely to be charged, were arrested; they also considered, however, that it was right to maintain a full list of suspects, not as "wanted" people but in case the information should be required at any time or in any particular area.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1911')
	Both the Army and the RUC took the view that their instructions to personnel should ensure that only the more important terrorists, or those who were likely to be charged, were arrested; they also considered, however, that it was right to maintain a full list of suspects, not as "wanted" people but in case the information should be required at any time or in any particular area.

I have received on this issue the clearest possible advice from the Army and Police, which is embodied in the attached Memorandum to the Cabinet here.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6955')
	I have received on this issue the clearest possible advice from the Army and Police, which is embodied in the attached Memorandum to the Cabinet here. My colleagus fully share my view that, even to secure some form of political or negotiating advantage, it would be quite wrong to take action which would be contrary to the clear security advice.

Dr.	('PREM_15_1691', 'IMG_8880')
	Dr. Fitzgerald asked the British Government’s intentions on 
internment. The Prime Minister said that the British Government 
had changed the basis on which people were detained in Northern Ireland. 
Powers Act. 
The White Paper would deal with the future of the Special

I have today made an order prohibiting all processions throughout Northern Ireland, with the exception of customary remembrance day parades organised by ex-servicemen’s organisations, for a period of six months.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2164')
	I have today made an order prohibiting all processions throughout Northern Ireland, with the exception of customary remembrance day parades organised by ex-servicemen’s organisations, for a period of six months.

Our present thinking in regard to timing of n approach is based on the following points: (a) If decision on Apprentice Boys March in Derry on 12 
August does not fully 
meet Mr. Lynch’s views, any approach on internment should be delayed until afterwards, 
(b) Since chances of a favourable response by Mr. Lynch must be small, we want to make the approach in such a way as to minimise the risk of the approach and his response becoming known and jeopardising action in the North.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2214')
	If decision on Apprentice Boys March in Derry on 12 
August does not fully 
meet Mr. Lynch’s views, any approach on internment should be delayed until afterwards,

direct rule situation - and this is perhaps thd moot likely situation in which internment miDet be seen to be required - the deoision to intern would lie with tho Westminter Government alone, 8. The second grounds • troop accommodation -needs to be soon against the background of current and promoted force novels and tho means of having them’ 9. W 4hle long term force levels are postulated at 5 ma or units in he infantry role (ell subsequent’ cautions 1n .	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2263')
	In -a .direct rule situation - and this is perhaps thd moot likely situation in which internment miDet be seen to be required - the deoision to intern would lie with tho Westminter Government alone,

17 FEBRUARY 
1. MY IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING TELEGRAM CONTAINS THE TEXT OF A PAPER ON THE SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF THE RELEASE OF INTERNEES TABLED AT THE JOINT SECURITY COMMITTEE MEETING THISMORNING.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6773')
	MY IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING TELEGRAM CONTAINS THE TEXT OF A PAPER ON THE SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF THE RELEASE OF INTERNEES TABLED AT THE JOINT SECURITY COMMITTEE MEETING THISMORNING.

Simultaneously, with the development of Protestant militancy and a more general polarisation of the communities, SF have had to look to both directions and a good deal of military effort has been devoted to counteracting extreme Protestant groups. Some measure of the endeavour is reflected in the following statistics which cover the period since Operation MOTORMAN was launched (31 July) to the end of 1972: 
a. 
Weapons and Ammunition Finds (1) 
(2) (3) 
(4) b. (1) 
(2) (3) (4) (5) 
c. 
IRA weapons recovered IRA ammunition recovered 
Protestant Weapons recovered Protestant ammunition recovered 
Casualties Regular Army 
Ulster Defence Regiment Royal Ulster Constabulary Terrorists confirmed (IRA) 
terrorists claimed 
Intersectarian Assassinations Aug 
(1) (2) d. Roman Catholic Protestant Totals Detained 9 5 14 42 12 6 31 - - 518 weapons 
- 69,000 rounds 184 weapons 
- - 27,000 rounds Killed Wounded 211 15 31 25 208 
Sep Oct 5 
5 10 119 
9 2 
11 
Nov 7 
Nil 7 
Provisional IRA 0fficers Removed from Battle (1) 
(2) (3) e. Imprisoned Held in Custody 49 Reduction in Violence Achieved (1) (2) 
Shooting Incidents Explosions 
July (Pre MOTORMAN) 2,778 184 
Dec 1972 729 57 
3 
Dec 13 
6 19 
Total 43 
18 61	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_155')
	Simultaneously, with the development of Protestant militancy and a more general polarisation of the communities, SF have had to look to both directions and a good deal of military effort has been devoted to counteracting extreme Protestant groups.

The 
Some means had to be found where Would it be 
possible, as a gesture, to let out some internees who were not terrorists but wore only members of the political wing of the IRA?	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6711')
	Would it be 
possible, as a gesture, to let out some internees who were not terrorists but wore only members of the political wing of the IRA?

If that is agreed, it is important 
not to lose sight of the fact that neither releases from internment nor internment orders themselves are pure acts of policy.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7249')
	If that is agreed, it is important 
not to lose sight of the fact that neither releases from internment nor internment orders themselves are pure acts of policy. 
If an internment order depends on the 
individual concerned being a danger to public security, then his release must imply that that danger is no longer present. 
some new situation arises, ie that he himself re-engages in illegal activity or that the general situation has deteriorated.

Mr. Faulkner referred to security at the border 
He suggested that blowing large craters in the border roads He referred to the political initiatives which he had taken, 
and which had evoked no real response, as justifying firm action now without excessive regard for the susceptibilities of those who had declined to co-operate.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2220')
	He referred to the political initiatives which he had taken, 
and which had evoked no real response, as justifying firm action now without excessive regard for the susceptibilities of those who had declined to co-operate.

Details of possible IRA operations; arms caches; safe houses; communications and supply routes, including those across the border; and locations of wanted persons.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5002')
	On the 
introduction of internment two operations of interrogation in depth took place involving the use of these techniques. 
In August 1971 12 detainees and in 
October 1971 two detainees were interrogated in depth. 20 
was obtained: (1) 
As a direct result of these two operations the following new information 
Identification of a further 700 members of both IRA factions, and their positions in the organisations. 
(2) (3) 
Over 40 sheets giving details of the organisation and structure of IRA units and sub-units. 
Details of possible IRA operations; arms caches; safe houses; communications and supply routes, including those across the border; and locations of wanted persons.

9. Where practicable, all persons detained in the Interrogation Centre should 
be seen daily by a Medical Officer and asked if they have any complaints; any allegations of cruelty or torture should be reported at once to the appropriate superior medical headquarters or senior responsible civil or military authority.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5027')
	Where practicable, all persons detained in the Interrogation Centre should 
be seen daily by a Medical Officer and asked if they have any complaints;

(vi) In the face of violence from whatever quarter law and order have to be restored, even at the cost of a massive deployment of the British Army and the introduction of internment without trial.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_6070')
	In the face of violence from whatever quarter law and order have to be restored, even at the cost of a massive deployment of the British Army and the introduction of internment without trial.

ALSO THE FACT THAT THE INTIMIDATION OF THE POPULATION BY THE TERRORISTS HAS BEEN INCREASINGLY HAMPERING THE PROCESS OF GATHERING INTELIGENCE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_196')
	ALSO THE FACT THAT THE INTIMIDATION OF THE POPULATION BY THE TERRORISTS HAS BEEN INCREASINGLY HAMPERING THE PROCESS OF GATHERING INTELIGENCE.

The requiring of such an oath by internees has a long 
history on both sides of the border; and the RUC Special Branch whose members are most at risk, would be greatly concerned if it were abandoned. modified 
It could, however, be This process will help to space out	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7250')
	The requiring of such an oath by internees has a long 
history on both sides of the border; and the RUC Special Branch whose members are most at risk, would be greatly concerned if it were abandoned.

Anyone arrested under (c) above will be questioned in this second way immediately.	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1759')
	Anyone arrested under (c) above will be questioned in this second way immediately.

Both the Secretary of State and Mr Maudling when Home Secretary had repeatedly referred to the need to retain internment for security reasons, implying that when the security situation was satisfactory the en would no longer be held as hostages.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7947')
	Both the Secretary of State and Mr Maudling when Home Secretary had repeatedly referred to the need to retain internment for security reasons, implying that when the security situation was satisfactory the en would no longer be held as hostages.

Fitzgerald that the number of people being charged for security offences and brought before the courts was now very considerable.	('PREM_15_1691', 'IMG_8880')
	The 
Prime Minister reminded Dr. Fitzgerald that the number of people being charged for security offences and brought before the courts was now very considerable

If the Secretary of State took the risk of a complete end to internment the pressures on the Provisionals to end violence would be irresistible.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7662')
	If the Secretary of State took the risk of a complete end to internment the pressures on the Provisionals to end violence would be irresistible.

SIR EDMUND COMPTON IS AVAILABLE TO INVESTIGATE COMPLAINTS OF ILLTREATMENT IN CONNECTION WITH ARRESTS MADE UNDER THE SPECIAL POWERS ACT.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_2105')
	SIR EDMUND COMPTON IS AVAILABLE TO INVESTIGATE COMPLAINTS OF ILLTREATMENT IN CONNECTION WITH ARRESTS MADE UNDER THE SPECIAL POWERS ACT.

2. HE WILL AT THE SAME TIME ANNOUNCE THAT ALL MARCHES AND PARADES ARE BANNED UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_179')
	HE WILL AT THE SAME TIME ANNOUNCE THAT ALL MARCHES AND PARADES ARE BANNED UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.

It may be wise 
to include it in any event]. The introduction of internment in the Six 
Counties has been necessary only because no Government can acquiesce in illegal attempts to overthrow lawfully constituted authority or allow itself to be coerced by intimidation and bloodshed. 
But we all deplore the circumstances 
which have led to internment; /and we welcome the assurance of the Government of Northern Ireland that every effort will be made to ensure that all those who wish to avail themselves of their statutory right to appeal against their continued detention will be enabled to do so as rapidly as possible and that the number of those held in internment will be reduced to the minimum constituting an indisputable threat to public security].	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5729')
	The introduction of internment in the Six 
Counties has been necessary only because no Government can acquiesce in illegal attempts to overthrow lawfully constituted authority or allow itself to be coerced by intimidation and bloodshed. 
But we all deplore the circumstances 
which have led to internment; /and we welcome the assurance of the Government of Northern Ireland that every effort will be made to ensure that all those who wish to avail themselves of their statutory right to appeal against their continued detention will be enabled to do so as rapidly as possible and that the number of those held in internment will be reduced to the minimum constituting an indisputable threat to public security].

IT MAY ALSO BE SO REGARDED BY MEMBERS OF THE SECURITY FORCES AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6772')
	IN ANY PROGRAMME OF RELEASE FOR POLITICAL REASONS THE IRA WILL CERTAINLY REGARD THE MEASURE AS PROOF OF THEIR OWN SUCCESS. IT MAY ALSO BE SO REGARDED BY MEMBERS OF THE SECURITY FORCES AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC.

We may yet have much to endure as a community: but if we endure it with courage and steadiness, the utter defeat of terrorism is sure.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2163')
	but if we endure it with courage and steadiness, the utter defeat of terrorism is sure.

IN PURELY MILITARY TERMS, SEEKING TO CONTAIN THIS DETERIORATING SITUATION BY THE MEANS EMPLOYED HITHERTO WOULD HAVE MEANT AT BESTA LONG HAUL.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_176')
	IN PURELY MILITARY TERMS, SEEKING TO CONTAIN THIS DETERIORATING SITUATION BY THE MEANS EMPLOYED HITHERTO WOULD HAVE MEANT AT BESTA LONG HAUL.

I have discussed the practical arrangements which need to be put in hand and I am pleased to say that work will begin on it 
June 
September for Phase 1 of the camp if it is required for internment i.e.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2245')
	Phase 1 of the camp if it is required for internment

4. FOLLOWING ARE COMMENTS ON YOUR TELEGRAM NUMBER 146. (1) WE KNOW THAT THE IRISH GOVERNMENT HAVE DECIDED ON A TOUGH LINE AGAINST BOTH I R A FACTIONS, AND EVEN IF CONVICTIONS ARE NOT OBTAINED IN COURTS THEY WILL HARASS THEM BY ADMINISTRATIVE 
ACTION.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2207')
	WE KNOW THAT THE IRISH GOVERNMENT HAVE DECIDED ON A TOUGH LINE AGAINST BOTH I R A FACTIONS, AND EVEN IF CONVICTIONS ARE NOT OBTAINED IN COURTS THEY WILL HARASS THEM BY ADMINISTRATIVE 
ACTION. THE MINSTER OF FINANCE REPEATED THIS TO ME LAST SATURDAY, AND ADDED THAT INTERNMENT WAS NOT REPEAT NOT EXCLUDED.

Internment Appeals Tribunal The Prime Minister considers that it is 
very important, from the point of view of the tripartite meeting next week, that all the appointments to the Internment Appeals Tribunal should be finalised, and that there should, if possible, be a sitting of the Tribunal before the tripartite meeting.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5754')
	Internment Appeals Tribunal The Prime Minister considers that it is 
very important, from the point of view of the tripartite meeting next week, that all the appointments to the Internment Appeals Tribunal should be finalised, and that there should, if possible, be a sitting of the Tribunal before the tripartite meeting.

COMPOSITION: A High Court Judge; and two Senior Queen’s Counsel appointed by the Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland to sit and assist the Judge.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6754')
	COMPOSITION: A High Court Judge; and two Senior Queen’s Counsel appointed by the Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland to sit and assist the Judge. 
Those sitting on the Bench would have Inquisitional powers.

Arrangements for medical examinations of internees have been further improved, not only to safeguard the interests of persons arrested but also to prevent baseless allegations.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4974')
	There have been complaints of illtreatment in other oases, all of which are investigated, although investigation is frequently difficult when complaints are made through newspapers rather than directly to the authorities concerned. Action is taken on well-founded complaints but there has been nothing to substantiate the statement in your telegram. Arrangements for medical examinations of internees have been further improved, not only to safeguard the interests of persons arrested but also to prevent baseless allegations.

NORTHERN IRELAND - INTERNMENT ACCOMMODATION As you know, there are immediate problems in providing 
sufficient accommodation for internees and detainees in Northern Ireland to keep pace with the number of terrorists on whom detention and internment orders are being served.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6577')
	As you know, there are immediate problems in providing 
sufficient accommodation for internees and detainees in Northern Ireland to keep pace with the number of terrorists on whom detention and internment orders are being served.

2. Following the decision of the Northern Ireland Government; after 
consultation with Her Majesty’s Government, to exercise powers of detention and internment where necessary, the formal authority for the removal of certain individuals from the place specified in their detention orders to the interrogation centre was given by the Northern Ireland Minister of Home Affairs.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5166')
	Following the decision of the Northern Ireland Government; after 
consultation with Her Majesty’s Government, to exercise powers of detention and internment where necessary, the formal authority for the removal of certain individuals from the place specified in their detention orders to the interrogation centre was given by the Northern Ireland Minister of Home Affairs.

DURING THEIR MEETING LAST OCTOBER, INFORMING HIM THAT, SINCE THE INTRODUCTION OF DIRECT RULE, THE NUMBER OF INTERNEES HAD BEEN REDUCED FROM OVER 1,000 TO SOME 171 AND THAT MORE WOULD SOON BE RELEASED.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9336')
	DURING THEIR MEETING LAST OCTOBER, INFORMING HIM THAT, SINCE THE INTRODUCTION OF DIRECT RULE, THE NUMBER OF INTERNEES HAD BEEN REDUCED FROM OVER 1,000 TO SOME 171 AND THAT MORE WOULD SOON BE RELEASED.

Nor have much methods been without success, because a substantial number of the most prominent leaders of the IRA are now serving ordinary prison sentences.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_50')
	Every means has been tried to make terrorists amenable to 
the law. Nor have much methods been without success, because a substantial number of the most prominent leaders of the IRA are now serving ordinary prison sentences.

THEY HAVE IT IN MIND TO EXPLORE WITH HIM THE POSSIBILITY OF A BAN ON ALL MARCHES INCLUDING THAT OF 12 AUGUST, AND WHETHER THIS CAN BE ACHIEVED ONLY AS PART OF A PACKAGE DEAL WHICH WOULD ALSO INCLUDE INTERNMENT IN NORTHERN IRELAND.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_231')
	THEY HAVE IT IN MIND TO EXPLORE WITH HIM THE POSSIBILITY OF A BAN ON ALL MARCHES INCLUDING THAT OF 12 AUGUST, AND WHETHER THIS CAN BE ACHIEVED ONLY AS PART OF A PACKAGE DEAL WHICH WOULD ALSO INCLUDE INTERNMENT IN NORTHERN IRELAND.

After further discussion it was agreed that the sub-paragraph should read as follows:"Other terrorists who are known, on the basis of a joint intelligence assessment, to be an exceptionally serious threat to security, and for whom, in the absence of evidence which could form the basis of a criminal charge, a strong case could be made for an Interim Custody Order."	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1803')
	"Other terrorists who are known, on the basis of a joint intelligence assessment, to be an exceptionally serious threat to security, and for whom, in the absence of evidence which could form the basis of a criminal charge, a strong case could be made for an Interim Custody Order."

WE HAVE MADE CLEAR OUR VIEW THAT THE MEASURES TAKEN SHOULD NOT DISCRIMINATE AS BETWEEN THE DIFFERENT SECTIONS OF THE COMMUNITY EXCEPT AS THE FACTS OF THE SITUATION MAKE INEVITABLE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_180')
	WE HAVE MADE CLEAR OUR VIEW THAT THE MEASURES TAKEN SHOULD NOT DISCRIMINATE AS BETWEEN THE DIFFERENT SECTIONS OF THE COMMUNITY EXCEPT AS THE FACTS OF THE SITUATION MAKE INEVITABLE.

IT IS NOT EASY FOR PEOPLE IN MANY AREAS TO EXPRESS PUBLICLY A CERTAIN VIEW, BUT I HAVE REASON TO KNOW THAT IN JUST SUCH AREAS MANY, MANY PEOPLE ARE DELIGHTED TO BE RID OF THE THUGS WHO HAVE FOR TOO LONG OPPRESSED THEM.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6926')
	IT IS NOT EASY FOR PEOPLE IN MANY AREAS TO EXPRESS PUBLICLY A CERTAIN VIEW, BUT I HAVE REASON TO KNOW THAT IN JUST SUCH AREAS MANY, MANY PEOPLE ARE DELIGHTED TO BE RID OF THE THUGS WHO HAVE FOR TOO LONG OPPRESSED THEM.

(ii) 
ensure that instructions are issued to the RUC on the importance of distinguishing between the type of questioning appropriate to a prisoner against whom charges are likely to be brought in court and the type appropriate when the object is simply to secure intelligence.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7694')
	ensure that instructions are issued to the RUC on the importance of distinguishing between the type of questioning appropriate to a prisoner against whom charges are likely to be brought in court and the type appropriate when the object is simply to secure intelligence. 
(The actual 
conduct of interrogation for intelligence purposes will be discussed later in the meeting.)

forces to help to implement it, if it was not accompanied by a complete ban on marches and parades of all kinds; and we have made clear our present view that that ban will need to remain in force for longer than six months, although the extension after six months remains formally open for discussion.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_206')
	forces to help to implement it, if it was not accompanied by a complete ban on marches and parades of all kinds;

Of course you 
deplore all that has happened over the weekend and since in acts of terrorism and senseless killing of innocent persons.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_154')
	Of course you 
deplore all that has happened over the weekend and since in acts of terrorism and senseless killing of innocent persons. Your hope is that by removing the terrorist elements from the active political scene, it will be possible for the communities of Northern Ireland to get a sense of nerspective and balance.

He was the 34th regular soldier to be killed. Arrests 6. 
Since 9 August there have been 876 arrests under the Special	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_5990')
	Since 9 August there have been 876 arrests under the Special

as dangerous terrorists, as we regard officers in the Provisional IRA.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1815')
	as dangerous terrorists, as we regard officers in the Provisional IRA.

are suspected of having committed an offence against Regulation 24 A made under the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act (Northern Ireland) 1922. 
to this order and their detention Those named in the Annex referred to above Under Regulation 11 made under that Act any member of Her Majesty’s 
forces on duty when the occasion for the arrest arises may arrest without warrant any person who is suspected of having committed an offence against the Regulations.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2183')
	are suspected of having committed an offence against Regulation 24 A made under the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act (Northern Ireland) 1922. 
to this order and their detention Those named in the Annex referred to above Under Regulation 11 made under that Act any member of Her Majesty’s 
forces on duty when the occasion for the arrest arises may arrest without warrant any person who is suspected of having committed an offence against the Regulations.

4. 
At present the demand for Internment is not vociferous, but continuing 
interest may easily produce a climate in which the northern Ireland Government feels compelled to press us to agree to it. The considerations against internment are:(a) it would be politically damaging internally and internationally; (b) there is no certainty that all dangerous men could be identified;	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2298')
	At present the demand for Internment is not vociferous, but continuing 
interest may easily produce a climate in which the northern Ireland Government feels compelled to press us to agree to it.

This is obviously a very much smaller proportion than the one-quarter alleged by the Daily Express.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7704')
	The answer was that there were reports of varying reliability that up to 25 (of 380 or so who had been released by them) had returned to more or less active membership of the IRA - 
which did not 
necessarily mean that they had themselves become active terrorists again. This is obviously a very much smaller proportion than the one-quarter alleged by the Daily Express.

shadow of fear which hangs over too many of you.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_53')
	shadow of fear which hangs over too many of you.

7. Responsibility of the "Officer in Charge". The "Officer in Charge of 
the place of detention" will be appointed from the Prison Service and will as soon as possible be provided with the necessary staff from the Prison Service or RUC to interpret and implement within be place of detention the conditions of detention specified by the Civil Authority.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2180')
	he "Officer in Charge of 
the place of detention" will be appointed from the Prison Service and will as soon as possible be provided with the necessary staff from the Prison Service or RUC to interpret and implement within be place of detention the conditions of detention specified by the Civil Authority.

H.M.G.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_153')
	H.M.G. supported 
the Northern Ireland Government in the view that murders and terrorists and intimidators could not be allowed to continue unchecked; although there was no doubt that the security forces could have contained the situation, it would have involved a very long haul and a deteriorating local situation.

The reason why an additional camp was needed was ghat more and more wanted men were being arrested and it was because of this that the IRA were now in some difficulty.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6710')
	The reason why an additional camp was needed was ghat more and more wanted men were being arrested and it was because of this that the IRA were now in some difficulty.

3. I think you could also justify the immediate preparation of a 
long term site by emphasising the unsuitability of any of the short term solutions, of which the Maidstone is the most acceptable.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2284')
	I think you could also justify the immediate preparation of a 
long term site by emphasising the unsuitability of any of the short term solutions, of which the Maidstone is the most acceptable.

THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR NORTHERN IRELAND IS ESTABLISHING IMEDIATELY A PROCEDURE TO REVIEW EACH CASE PERSONALLY.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7209')
	HE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR NORTHERN IRELAND IS ESTABLISHING IMEDIATELY A PROCEDURE TO REVIEW EACH CASE PERSONALLY.

Similarly, a phasing out of internment would represent a 
major concession to the minority in the North and to Mr. Lynch in the South; and it is therefore essentially a bargaining card, which should not be played except in return for counter concessions in the wider political context.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6886')
	Similarly, a phasing out of internment would represent a 
major concession to the minority in the North and to Mr. Lynch in the South; and it is therefore essentially a bargaining card, which should not be played except in return for counter concessions in the wider political context.

For further enlightenment on this point, we shall have to await the Compton report. But it is necessary to bear constantly in mind the overriding need	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5231')
	But it is necessary to bear constantly in mind the overriding need

an authorisation in the form at Annex A. 
to make under Regulation 10. 
arrest under the Special Powers Acts,	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2181')
	you will be receiving, from an officer in the RUC, an authorisation in the form at Annex A. 
to make under Regulation 10

If so, the new Directive should be issued without further delay; and in the case of Northern Ireland it should be accompanied, as the Attorney General has suggested, by a specific reminder about the domestic law on the subject in the Six Counties. 
15th June, 1972	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7697')
	If so, the new Directive should be issued without further delay; and in the case of Northern Ireland it should be accompanied, as the Attorney General has suggested, by a specific reminder about the domestic law on the subject in the Six Counties.

Their release will be conditional on an undertaking 
not to take part in or encourage violence or illegal action.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7253')
	It is HMG’s intention to release as soon as possible 
those internees about whom there is a reasonable degree of doubt as to the danger to security that their release would pose. 
Their release will be conditional on an undertaking 
not to take part in or encourage violence or illegal action.

Regulation 13(5) provides 
that ’Persons detained or interned in any of Her Majesty’s prisons shall be subject to any rules for the government of prisoners awaiting trial including such general rules as are applicable to such prisoners, for the time being in force, except in so far as the said rules are inconsistent with this regulations.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5013')
	Regulation 11 
provides a limited power of detention and a limited right to photograph and finger-print and Regulation 12 a limited right of internment. 
Regulation 13(5) provides 
that ’Persons detained or interned in any of Her Majesty’s prisons shall be subject to any rules for the government of prisoners awaiting trial including such general rules as are applicable to such prisoners, for the time being in force, except in so far as the said rules are inconsistent with this regulations.

At that time our policy was for S of S not to take part in TV or press interviews since the Northern Ireland Government and the Home Office were taking the lead on the policy of internment.	('DEFE_13_917', 'IMG_2390')
	At that time our policy was for S of S not to take part in TV or press interviews since the Northern Ireland Government and the Home Office were taking the lead on the policy of internment.

THE LATEST SERIES OF ACTS OF TERRORISM BY THE IRA AND THEIR RECENT DECLARATIONS OF THEIR INTENTION TO CONTINUE AND EVEN ESCALATE THAT CAMPAIGN HAVE MADE IT IMPOSSIBLE FOR HIM TO RESIST THE PRESSURES ONHIM FOR MORE DRASTIC ACTION TO ARREST THE DETERIORATION OF MORALE AND THE UNDERMINING OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL STABILITY IN NORTHERN IRELAND.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_196')
	THE LATEST SERIES OF ACTS OF TERRORISM BY THE IRA AND THEIR RECENT DECLARATIONS OF THEIR INTENTION TO CONTINUE AND EVEN ESCALATE THAT CAMPAIGN HAVE MADE IT IMPOSSIBLE FOR HIM TO RESIST THE PRESSURES ONHIM FOR MORE DRASTIC ACTION TO ARREST THE DETERIORATION OF MORALE AND THE UNDERMINING OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL STABILITY IN NORTHERN IRELAND

14. Over the last couple of years we have taken many steps to make it clear that we want (following word underlined) all the people of Northern Ireland to play a part in administerin and developing the country. 
in administrative structures can unit his community until we ut neither changes in law nor changes	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_53')
	Over the last couple of years we have taken many steps to make it clear that we want (following word underlined) all the people of Northern Ireland to play a part in administerin and developing the country. 
in administrative structures can unit his community until we ut neither changes in law nor chang

In that 
situation there is a more persuasive case for a once for all enactment which will cover appropriate cases over the whole period of the emergency. 
15 June 1972	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7701')
	But no need seems to arise at present Unless we are confronted with a 
spate of private prosecutions or civil actions giving rise to security or other possible problems, it would be best to consider whether an Indemnity Act is appropriate when order has been restored, and the work of reconstruction and reconciliation has been started; that would be the most suitable time for the enactment of any Indemnity Act. 
In that 
situation there is a more persuasive case for a once for all enactment which will cover appropriate cases over the whole period of the emergency.

It could be argued In fact that this section applies to a person arrested without warrant under Regulation 11 of the Special Powers Act for the section says: "Where a person arrested without warrant is not within 24 hours of his arrest released from custody the member of the R.U.C.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2176')
	It could be argued In fact that this section applies to a person arrested without warrant under Regulation 11 of the Special Powers Act for the section says: "Where a person arrested without warrant is not within 24 hours of his arrest released from custody the member of the R.U.C. in charge of the constabulary station where such person is in custody shall bring him or have him brought before a Magistrates’ Court as soon as practicable thereafter but, in any event, not later than 48 hours after his arrest".

3. 
The House of Commons approved the Detention of Terrorists Order 1972 by 
179 votes to 32. 4. 
In the national referendum in the Republic of Ireland on 7 December about 
84% of the poll voted in favour of deleting Article 44 from the Constitution and lowering the voting age from 21 to 18 years.	('PREM_15_1016', 'IMG_8504')
	The House of Commons approved the Detention of Terrorists Order 1972 by 
179 votes to 32.

The principles applied in the interrogation of suspects in Northern Treland since August this year, and the methods employed (which are necessary not only for reasons of control but also to protect the lives of those being interrogated against the risk of reprisals), are essentially the same as those which have been employed in all emergencies of this kind in which Britain has been involved in recent years. 
The rules 
now in force were issued in 1965 and were revised in 1967 in the light of recommendations made by Mr. Roderick Bowen QC in a report on the procedures for the arrest, interrogation and detention of suspected terrorists in Aden (Cmnd 3165). 15. 
These rules are summarised in the Government’s 
evidence to the committee (paragraph 46) which also points out that: 
"The precise application of these general rules in particular circumstances is inevitably to some extent a matter of judgment on the part of those immediately	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5169')
	The rules 
now in force were issued in 1965 and were revised in 1967 in the light of recommendations made by Mr. Roderick Bowen QC in a report on the procedures for the arrest, interrogation and detention of suspected terrorists in Aden (Cmnd 3165)

It is very much a second best to have to arrest people under 
Regulations 10 or 11, and the only other way is to arrest them for suspected criminal offences, even if only under such provisions as conspiracy, breach of the peace, incitement etc.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1914')
	It is very much a second best to have to arrest people under 
Regulations 10 or 11, and the only other way is to arrest them for suspected criminal offences, even if only under such provisions as conspiracy, breach of the peace, incitement etc.

It was noted that a case could be made for the introduction of preventive detention as being preferable to internment without trial; but legislation would be required, and S of S judged that this would present Parliamentary difficulties which would prevent early action.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_1986')
	It was noted that a case could be made for the introduction of preventive detention as being preferable to internment without trial; but legislation would be required, and S of S judged that this would present Parliamentary difficulties which would prevent early action.

Intelligence is the key to successful operations against 
Medical examination and record of weight of subject on admission and discharge.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5213')
	Intelligence is the key to successful operations against

8. 
The main target of the present operation is the Irish 
Republican Army.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_51')
	The main target of the present operation is the Irish 
Republican Army.which has been responsible for recent acts of terrorism, and whose victims have included Protestant and Roman Catholic alike

4. WHEN MCCAnt GAVE -E THE TEXT OF MR LYNCH’S ’ESSAGE AND HAD SPOKEN 0t THE A’OVE LINES, I ASKED HIM IF HE HAD EVER CONSI)ERED THE POSSIBILITY THAT OUR PRESE T PROCRAMME CF SECUr!	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6151')
	WHEN MCCAnt GAVE -E THE TEXT OF MR LYNCH’S ’ESSAGE AND HAD SPOKEN 0t THE A’OVE LINES, I ASKED HIM IF HE HAD EVER CONSI)ERED THE POSSIBILITY THAT OUR PRESE T PROCRAMME CF SECUr!TY rEASURES PLUS I.1TE NMEflT MIGHT SUCCEED ’11 CUSHItG THE IRA.

The Prime Minister said he hoped that the Pope felt that 
the British Governent was indeed trying to restore freedom.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8245')
	The Prime Minister said he hoped that the Pope felt that 
the British Governent was indeed trying to restore freedom. This was certainly the case. 
gunmen we should regrettably need troops. 
But as long as there were

Consultation with the Northern Ireland Government 12. If Ministers in London agree that it would be right,	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6576')
	If Ministers in London agree that it would be right, in a period of much-reduced terrorist activity, to ease up on security measures generally and internment in particular, they will wish to consider how they could best carry the Northern Ireland Government with them in thus varyingthe tactics 
- since the 
co-operation of the Northern Ireland authorities would be essential if the new approach were to achieve its object of generating further de-escalation, especially where internment is concerned.

14. As an indication of Long Koh’so valuo, thore is no doubt that co long as it vaa not required for internoos, it would be used to houco’ troops inodiatoly on ito completion.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2265')
	As an indication of Long Koh’so valuo, thore is no doubt that co long as it vaa not required for internoos, it would be used to houco’ troops inodiatoly on ito completion.

There were fears that the morale of the Special Branch might suffer, which would have serious consequences since their continued cooperation was essential.	('PREM_15_1007', 'IMG_7485')
	There were fears that the morale of the Special Branch might suffer, which would have serious consequences since their continued cooperation was essential.

And the whole point about internment is to deal with the terrorism so that it is then possible to make the advance on other fronts.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_136')
	And the whole point about internment is to deal with the terrorism so that it is then possible to make the advance on other fronts.

Fr Faul’s image is that of an ordinary country cleric (with perhaps liberal tendencies) helping the oppressed.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1926')
	Fr Faul’s image is that of an ordinary country cleric (with perhaps liberal tendencies) helping the oppressed. In face he is extremely shrewd, and is by no means a liberal. He is a "hardliner" in regard to Catholic education, and an article in the Sunday Press on December 12 1971 showed he was not in favour of changes in the Eire constitution in order to meet Protestant objections.

LATER THE COMMITTEE, AFTER CONSULTING THEIR FELLOW INTERNEES TOLD THE DELEGATION THAT THEY WERE NOT WELCOME IN THEIR WING OF THE PRISON.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6196')
	LATER THE COMMITTEE, AFTER CONSULTING THEIR FELLOW INTERNEES TOLD THE DELEGATION THAT THEY WERE NOT WELCOME IN THEIR WING OF THE PRISON. OTHER INTERNEES VOCALLY SUPPORTED THEM. THE DELEGATION DID NOT GO IN, BUT I GATHER THEY BELIEVE CONDITIONS THERE TO BE GOOD, APPRECIATE THE EFFORTS MADE TO HELP FAMILIES OF INTERNEES. INTERNEES DI D NOT GET MUCH SYMPATHY FOR THEIR GAKBMBBBYKHSM 
IW 
ONE MEAL HUNGER STRIKE OR THE CHANG EEEEE CHANTING STAGED FOR THE MPS.

The Secretary of State for Northern Ireland reviewed personally the cases of all those who had been interned, and, the Prime Minister said during his conversation with His Holiness in October, the great majority were released.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9319')
	"When HMG assumed direct responsibility for affairs 
in Northern Ireland in March 1972, the Prime Minister stated the government’s intention to make a start in the process of bringing internment to an end. The Secretary of State for Northern Ireland reviewed personally the cases of all those who had been interned, and, the Prime Minister said during his conversation with His Holiness in October, the great majority were released.

But whether or not that practice is adopted, we consider it essential 
- at least for the first few months - to 
have the sanction of re-arrest and re-internment available.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6779')
	But whether or not that practice is adopted, we consider it essential 
- at least for the first few months - to 
have the sanction of re-arrest and re-internment available.

The Home Secretary 
replied that all those arrested under the internment operation were people who the security forces believed to be active in terrorism.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_144')
	The Home Secretary 
replied that all those arrested under the internment operation were people who the security forces believed to be active in terrorism. 
Some might also 
be engaged in more reputable political activity but this was not a reason for their internment. 
the people arrested would be those suspected of IRA activities few of whm As the terrorism was conducted by the IRA it followed that

We have that the measures taken 
not discriminate as between the different sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_193')
	We have that the measures taken 
not discriminate as between the different sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable.

If a need for internment arose it could be the subject of legislation at the time.	('PREM_15_101', 'IMG_4743')
	If a need for internment arose it could be the subject of legislation at the time. The Army (including the U.D.R.) would need a range of powers of search and stopping vehicles and so forth all the time and not just during a proclaimed emergency.

2. 
INTERNEES THE PRIME MINISTER SAID THAT SINCE OPERATION MOTORMAN WE HAD RELEASED A LARGE NUMBER OF INTERNEES AND HAD CHARGED 105 PERSONS.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8128')
	THE PRIME MINISTER SAID THAT SINCE OPERATION MOTORMAN WE HAD RELEASED A LARGE NUMBER OF INTERNEES AND HAD CHARGED 105 PERSONS.

13. The essential points which emerge from this re-appraisal are: 
(a) So long as internment is regarded as a course which may become necessary,	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2256')
	So long as internment is regarded as a course which may become necessary,

While I naturally welcome contacts with 
you as the head of a friendly Government, and while Mr. Faulkner and I have often made clear our desire to see greater co-operati on between all Governments concerned in promoting the 
mutual prosperity and well- being of the peoples and 
of Northern Ireland/the Republic, I cannot accept that anyone outside the United Kingdom can participate in meetings designed to promote the political development of any part of the United Kingdom. I find your reference to supporting the 
policy of passive resistance now being pursued by certain elements in Northern Ireland calculated to do maximum damage to the cooperation between the communities in Northern	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5864')
	While I naturally welcome contacts with 
you as the head of a friendly Government, and while Mr. Faulkner and I have often made clear our desire to see greater co-operati on between all Governments concerned in promoting the 
mutual prosperity and well- being of the peoples and 
of Northern Ireland/the Republic, I cannot accept that anyone outside the United Kingdom can participate in meetings designed to promote the political development of any part of the United Kingdom. I find your reference to supporting the 
policy of passive resistance now being pursued by certain elements in Northern Ireland calculated to do maximum damage to the cooperation between the communities in Northern

The meeting may therefore be prepared to accept the advice of officials backed by the Attorney General; but Ministers will no doubt wish to ask the Attorney to keep under close review the number of private prosecutions and civil actions lest a situation should arise so exceptional as to call for special measures on the lines indicated by the report.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_175')
	The meeting may therefore be prepared to accept the advice of officials backed by the Attorney General; but Ministers will no doubt wish to ask the Attorney to keep under close review the number of private prosecutions and civil actions lest a situation should arise so exceptional as to call for special measures on the lines indicated by the report.

8. ALL INTERNEES ARE MEMBERS OF THE IRA AND THEIR PREMATURE RELEASE AS A POLITICAL GESTURE WOULD SERIOUSLY AFFECT THE GENERAL SECURITY SITUATION, PARTICULARLY IN THE FIELD OF INTELLIGENCE, VITAL IN ANY COUNTER-GUERRILLA CAMPAIGN.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6774')
	ALL INTERNEES ARE MEMBERS OF THE IRA AND THEIR PREMATURE RELEASE AS A POLITICAL GESTURE WOULD SERIOUSLY AFFECT THE GENERAL SECURITY SITUATION, PARTICULARLY IN THE FIELD OF INTELLIGENCE, VITAL IN ANY COUNTER-GUERRILLA CAMPAIGN.

In present circumstances the banning of marches could clearly be justified by reference to all three of the criteria which were the foundation of the Government of Northern Ireland’s statutory powers in this respect.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_213')
	In present circumstances the banning of marches could clearly be justified by reference to all three of the criteria which were the foundation of the Government of Northern Ireland’s statutory powers in this respect.

(3) to have cancelled your embarkation would have imperilled Monday’s security operation in Northern Ireland (because it would have given warning to suspects that something abnormal was about to happen). (4) 
operation.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_152')
	ion. 
H.M.G. is satisfied with the outcome of the initial Some 300 suspects have been detained. 
disclose what the target number was. and propaganda. 
We did not This is a war of nerves The terrorists have tried to play down the

I am sending you this message to let you know 
that the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland will very shortly be announcing that, in the light of the latest assessment of the security situation in Northern Ireland and all other relevant factors, and after consultation with the British Government, the Northern Ireland Government has decided to activate its powers of internment.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_185')
	I am sending you this message to let you know 
that the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland will very shortly be announcing that, in the light of the latest assessment of the security situation in Northern Ireland and all other relevant factors, and after consultation with the British Government, the Northern Ireland Government has decided to activate its powers of internment.

10. 
It is Her Majesty’s Government’s clear intention to bring 
internment to an end, when respect for the law and a normal situation of order have been restored throughout the Province.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7214')
	It is Her Majesty’s Government’s clear intention to bring 
internment to an end, when respect for the law and a normal situation of order have been restored throughout the Province.

Initially I have looked at those cases which the security authorities have advised might be considered for early release and last night I signed Orders authorising the release of 47 internees.	('PREM_15_1006', 'IMG_7290')
	Initially I have looked at those cases which the security authorities have advised might be considered for early release and last night I signed Orders authorising the release of 47 internees.

There was a discussion of various aspects of The GOC said that some 160 internees had 
-been segregated as "small fish". 
to remember that these people, although they did not hold important positions in the IRA, had probably fired shots and planted explosives.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6983')
	The GOC said that some 160 internees had 
-been segregated as "small fish". 
to remember that these people, although they did not hold important positions in the IRA, had probably fired shots and planted explosives.

I 
Ank the re atin of internment will be very hard to for Protestants teuvalew and indeed as I understand it this might be a ,IIIon,,,I 
, .,,,ae.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6835')
	I 
Ank the re atin of internment will be very hard to for Protestants teuvalew and indeed as I understand it this might be a ,IIIon,,,I 
, .,,,ae. (imply because of that

Further facilities for visitors, interviewing, separation 
prior to interview, exercise (jetty or quarter deck), medical services, would be dealt with on ad hoc basis.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2287')
	Further facilities for visitors, interviewing, separation 
prior to interview, exercise (jetty or quarter deck), medical services, would be dealt with on ad hoc basis

6. 
I have taken this serious step solely for the protection 
of life and security of property in Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_51')
	I have taken this serious step solely for the protection 
of life and security of property in Northern Ireland.

As soon as responsibility has been transferred an immediate 
review will be put in hand by this Government of all internment orders with a view to revoking as many of them as possible consistent with public safety.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7239')
	As soon as responsibility has been transferred an immediate 
review will be put in hand by this Government of all internment orders with a view to revoking as many of them as possible consistent with public safety. The Government have taken this decision after consultation with their military advisors.

Members of various organisations who have been associated in one way or 
another with the I.R.A.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5589')
	Members of various organisations who have been associated in one way or 
another with the I.R.A. are not included where I am not satisfied that they are sufficiently deeply implicated and committed to violence to justify their being interned.

This, together with the arrangements which were being made for a Board of Visitors to hear complaints of people once they were received into prison, should fill the gap which had been criticised.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6261')
	The Home Secretary told Mr. Faulkner that he proposed that Sir Edmund Compton 
be asked to carry on dealing with complaints from persons arrested with a view to internment. This, together with the arrangements which were being made for a Board of Visitors to hear complaints of people once they were received into prison, should fill the gap which had been criticised.

7. 
Nevertheless, the Secretary of State is entitled to claim 
(paragraph 4 of his memorandum) that he cannot go on much longer on the present basis; and the Committee may agree that the long-term political objections to Course II must yield to the immediate requirements of security.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8062')
	Nevertheless, the Secretary of State is entitled to claim 
(paragraph 4 of his memorandum) that he cannot go on much longer on the present basis; and the Committee may agree that the long-term political objections to Course II must yield to the immediate requirements of security.

Intelligence is the key to successful operations against terrorists; and the key to intelligence is information regarding 
Medical examination nd record of weight of subject on admission and discharge.	('DEFE_13_917', 'IMG_2305')
	Intelligence is the key to successful operations against terrorists; and the key to intelligence is information regarding

But I now believe that the great majority of those who share my wish to see internment phased-out, also share my concern that violence should cease.	('PREM_15_1006', 'IMG_7292')
	But I now believe that the great majority of those who share my wish to see internment phased-out, also share my concern that violence should cease.

INTERNEES DI D NOT GET MUCH SYMPATHY FOR THEIR GAKBMBBBYKHSM 
IW 
ONE MEAL HUNGER STRIKE OR THE CHANG EEEEE CHANTING STAGED FOR THE MPS.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6196')
	LATER THE COMMITTEE, AFTER CONSULTING THEIR FELLOW INTERNEES TOLD THE DELEGATION THAT THEY WERE NOT WELCOME IN THEIR WING OF THE PRISON. OTHER INTERNEES VOCALLY SUPPORTED THEM. THE DELEGATION DID NOT GO IN, BUT I GATHER THEY BELIEVE CONDITIONS THERE TO BE GOOD, APPRECIATE THE EFFORTS MADE TO HELP FAMILIES OF INTERNEES. INTERNEES DI D NOT GET MUCH SYMPATHY FOR THEIR GAKBMBBBYKHSM 
IW 
ONE MEAL HUNGER STRIKE OR THE CHANG EEEEE CHANTING STAGED FOR THE MPS.

8. 
The main target of the present operation in the Irish 
Republican Army which has been responsible for recent acts of terrorism, and whose victims have included Protestant and Roman Catholic alike.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2163')
	The main target of the present operation in the Irish 
Republican Army which has been responsible for recent acts of terrorism, and whose victims have included Protestant and Roman Catholic alike. They are the present threat: but we will not hesitate to take strong action against any other individuals or organisations who may present such a threat in the future.

THE FORMAL AUTHORISATION TO REMOVE CERTAIN wETAINEES TO THE GIV7N BY THE NORTHERN ItLAND KNOWLEDGE AND COCiCURRENCE OF HER 
(14) ADEN, 00 NOT KNOW WHETHER OR IN WHAT MEASURE, MINISTERS OF THE PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT KNEW OF THE METHODS EMPLOYED IN ADEN.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_2106')
	(13) FOflAL AUTHORISATION. THE FORMAL AUTHORISATION TO REMOVE CERTAIN wETAINEES TO THE GIV7N BY THE NORTHERN ItLAND KNOWLEDGE AND COCiCURRENCE OF HER

there should be a second round of detentions as soon as the information obtained from the first detainees had been digested.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5879')
	there should be a second round of detentions as soon as the information obtained from the first detainees had been digested. It was 
Ministers noted that it was proposed that ed that it was desirable that this second r of action 
should be completed as soon as possible.

WITNESSES: 
Police should attend the Court in person, but with the right to remain anonymous.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6754')
	Police should attend the Court in person, but with the right to remain anonymous. Identities to be disclosed only to the bench.

This means that he cannot be reinterned unless 
But it also implies a need for care in any If in fact the 
category C. internees are all about equal from the point of view of danger to the public safety, then the moment some of them are released the continued detention of the others in category C. is called into question.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7249')
	This means that he cannot be reinterned unless 
But it also implies a need for care in any If in fact the 
category C. internees are all about equal from the point of view of danger to the public safety, then the moment some of them are released the continued detention of the others in category C. is called into question. 
This 
seems to mean that the matter will have to be dealt with on a strictly individual basis, and it also means that only general conditions can be applied to the continued rundown of internment.

During February the Commissioners reviewed a further 111 cases.	('PREM_15_1690', 'IMG_8715')
	uring February the Commissioners reviewed a further 111 cases. The cases of all former internees and detainees have now been reviewed.

And we recognised then that, despite these improvements, it would be most unsafe to attempt to forecast how long it would take before terrorism could be brought to a halt. 
My Lords, moving on from that time to the present, I think it might be helpful if I were first to describe the current security situation - 
since, however much we may 
recognise that there can be no purely military solution, it remains vital to realise that the pace of progress in the political (and for that matter the economic) fields is very largely dictated by the state of security,	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6609')
	And we recognised then that, despite these improvements, it would be most unsafe to attempt to forecast how long it would take before terrorism could be brought to a halt. 
My Lords, moving on from that time to the present, I think it might be helpful if I were first to describe the current security situation - 
since, however much we may 
recognise that there can be no purely military solution, it remains vital to realise that the pace of progress in the political (and for that matter the economic) fields is very largely dictated by the state of security,

The morale and operational effectiveness of the IRA, and hence their level of intimidation, 
would inevitably rise the moment they knew that arrests under the Special Powers Act had stopped.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6778')
	The morale and operational effectiveness of the IRA, and hence their level of intimidation, 
would inevitably rise the moment they knew that arrests under the Special Powers Act had stopped.

Regulation 10 empowers the RUC be arrest and hold for up to 48 hours any person in order to question them.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7202')
	Regulation 10 empowers the RUC be arrest and hold for up to 48 hours any person in order to question them. The initial arrests in the internment exercise have been under this power. Regulation 11 allows the detention of persons without trial for an unspecified period on the order of the Civil Authority. Those initially arrested under Regulation 10 since internment began have been held under this regulation after 48 hours but before internment. Regulation 12 provides for internment.

activity.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5590')
	Internment involves the Catholic community only to the extent that 
some, I say some, member of that community have become involved in I.R.A. activity.

He is operating the inquisitorial procedure provided for in the Tribunals of Inquiry Act (a procedure which has been the subject of bitter criticism in the V and G case). There is no confrontation of witnesses and accused.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4924')
	He is operating the inquisitorial procedure provided for in the Tribunals of Inquiry Act (a procedure which has been the subject of bitter criticism in the V and G case).

YOUR THOUGHTFUL LETTER SHOWED THAT YOU UNDERSTAND WHY IT IS NOT POSSIBLE FOR US, IN PRESENT CIRCUMSTANCES, TO ACCEDE TO THEIR DEMAND THAT INTERNMENT SHOULD FIRST BE COMPLETELY ENDED.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_7004')
	OUR THOUGHTFUL LETTER SHOWED THAT YOU UNDERSTAND WHY IT IS NOT POSSIBLE FOR US, IN PRESENT CIRCUMSTANCES, TO ACCEDE TO THEIR DEMAND THAT INTERNMENT SHOULD FIRST BE COMPLETELY ENDED. IT WOULD NOT HELP THE CAUSE OF PEACE, IF A LARGE NUMBER OF GUNMEN WERE RELEASED.

In these circumstances we would welcome a slight amendment to make the terms read as follows: 
"To consider whether, and if so in what respects - under conditions in which persons suspected of terrorism can be lawfully detained without trial in the traditional Courts - the procedures currently authorised for the interrogation of such persons and for their custody while subject to interrogation require amendment."	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5050')
	To consider whether, and if so in what respects - under conditions in which persons suspected of terrorism can be lawfully detained without trial in the traditional Courts - the procedures currently authorised for the interrogation of such persons and for their custody while subject to interrogation require amendment."

Let us by clear that the I.R.A.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5589')
	Let us by clear that the I.R.A. have already deprived the community 
in Northern Ireland of certain elementary rights. People in areas where the I.R.A. is most active have been ruthlessly intimidated. those areas fear daily the risk of bring struck down. People outside

When one is dealing with an armed 
conspiracy it may be necessary to take pre-emptive action rather than wait until those involved can be caught red-handed.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5590')
	When one is dealing with an armed 
conspiracy it may be necessary to take pre-emptive action rather than wait until those involved can be caught red-handed.

Those sitting on the Bench would have Inquisitional powers.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6754')
	COMPOSITION: A High Court Judge; and two Senior Queen’s Counsel appointed by the Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland to sit and assist the Judge. 
Those sitting on the Bench would have Inquisitional powers.

The evidence is that both wings have been much more seriously disrupted than statements from IRA sources suggest, and while they will undoubtedly continue to give trouble, there is reasonable hope that, with increased vigilance at the border, terrorist activity wi11 now be at a lower level than in the weeks before internment.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5885')
	The internment operation has been a considerable success technically 
Those detained include a considerable number of both the Goulding and Brady wings of the IRA. The evidence is that both wings have been much more seriously disrupted than statements from IRA sources suggest, and while they will undoubtedly continue to give trouble, there is reasonable hope that, with increased vigilance at the border, terrorist activity wi11 now be at a lower level than in the weeks before internment.

A special court would consist of a judge of the Supreme Court sitting with any other judge of the Supreme Court or a county court judge or a resident magistrate.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7787')
	An arrested person could be held for 72 hours for questioning; and then either discharged or brought before a magistrate to be committed to a special court. A special court would consist of a judge of the Supreme Court sitting with any other judge of the Supreme Court or a county court judge or a resident magistrate.

2. 
Neither will be possible in a climate of terrorism and 
violence.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2162')
	Neither will be possible in a climate of terrorism and 
violence. The outrages to which we have been subjected now threaten our economic life and create every day deeper divisions and antagonism within our community.

As time-went on however, and, as it was apparently effective, it was enforced only occasionally or against suspected men.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2148')
	As time-went on however, and, as it was apparently effective, it was enforced only occasionally or against suspected men.

2. 
Internmnt has been used in the past against I.R.A.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2298')
	Internmnt has been used in the past against I.R.A. activity both 
North and South of the Border.

and will not prejudice continuing progress on the task of building more harmonious inter-community relations in Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_188')
	and will not prejudice continuing progress on the task of building more harmonious inter-community relations in Northern Ireland.

The Secretary of State said that he knew that this outcome would disapoint the SDLP but he hoped that they would be patient since more time was needed. The Secretary of State added that it is still HMG’s policy to phase out internment as soon as the security situation permits; the only point of issue between HMG and the SDLP	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7898')
	The Secretary of State said that the Prime Minister and Lord Carrington had explained to him that they fully understood the SDLP position and that the views of the SDLP would be considered; however, as yet, no decision had been taken on the ending of internment. The Secretary of State said that he knew that this outcome would disapoint the SDLP but he hoped that they would be patient since more time was needed. The Secretary of State added that it is still HMG’s policy to phase out internment as soon as the security situation permits; the only point of issue between HMG and the SDLP

2. The procedures for internment which HMG had 
inherited were far from satisfactory, and there was the general question whether any special procedures for detention were necessary at all.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9320')
	The procedures for internment which HMG had 
inherited were far from satisfactory, and there was the general question whether any special procedures for detention were necessary at all.

would need a range of powers of search and stopping vehicles and so forth all the time and not just during a proclaimed emergency.	('PREM_15_101', 'IMG_4743')
	If a need for internment arose it could be the subject of legislation at the time. The Army (including the U.D.R.) would need a range of powers of search and stopping vehicles and so forth all the time and not just during a proclaimed emergency.

9. THE SEGREGATION OF INTERNEES COUPLED WITH A REHABILITATION PROGRAMME, AND PERHAPS A MORE ACCEPTABLE UNDERTAKING ON RELEASE SHOULD RESULT IN AN INCREASED FLOW OF INTERNEES BEING RELEASED THROUGH THE EXISTING MACHINERY OF THE ADVISORY COUNCIL (JUDGE BROWN). AT THE SAME TIME, PROGRESS IN THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE IRA IS LEADING TO A GRADUAL DECREASE IN THE NUMBERS BEING INTERNED, AND AN INCREASE IN THE NUMBER BEING CHARGED.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6774')
	AT THE SAME TIME, PROGRESS IN THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE IRA IS LEADING TO A GRADUAL DECREASE IN THE NUMBERS BEING INTERNED, AND AN INCREASE IN THE NUMBER BEING CHARGED.

But that would have at best been a 
long haul, and Faulkner’s judgment was that the consequenes of that for the community would be worse than the consequences of what is now proposed.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2196')
	Faulkner’s judgment was that the consequenes of that for the community would be worse than the consequences of what is now proposed.

In the opinion of the Attorney General it would be 
possible to provide by legislation for the establishment of a procedure whereby persons would be subject to preventive detention on the exercise of the discretion of a tribunal which was satisfied that the persons brought before it had been concerned with terrorism.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_8006')
	In the opinion of the Attorney General it would be 
possible to provide by legislation for the establishment of a procedure whereby persons would be subject to preventive detention on the exercise of the discretion of a tribunal which was satisfied that the persons brought before it had been concerned with terrorism.

f. 
Anyone in the company of a person arrested "red-handed" if the 
arresting soldier suspects him of having committed or being about to commit an act prejudicial to peace. 
Stormont Castle 3 January 1973	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1802')
	f. 
Anyone in the company of a person arrested "red-handed" if the 
arresting soldier suspects him of having committed or being about to commit an act prejudicial to peace.

Now there is no sign of co-operation from Jack Lynch’s government at the moment.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5674')
	Wasn’t the success of the operation in the 
fifties due to the co-operation of Devalera and the Irish Government. In the south, they. interned a hundred extremists as well and patrolled their side of the border. Now there is no sign of co-operation from Jack Lynch’s government at the moment.

The recent intensification of bomb outrages and the risk that these incidents would be multiplied still further on the eve of the 12th August march were perhaps sufficient grounds in themselves; but it would be preferable, from the point of view of the Government of Northern Ireland, to place the emphasis on the former consideration rather than the latter.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_213')
	The recent intensification of bomb outrages and the risk that these incidents would be multiplied still further on the eve of the 12th August march were perhaps sufficient grounds in themselves; but it would be preferable, from the point of view of the Government of Northern Ireland, to place the emphasis on the former consideration rather than the latter.

of the Northern Ireland Government.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2196')
	The decision is, of course, Faulkners, since the 
powers under which these measures are taken are powers. of the Northern Ireland Government.

But the terrorist campaign continues at an unacceptable level, and I have had to conclude that the ordinary law cannot deal comprehensively or quickly enough with such ruthless viciousness.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_50')
	But the terrorist campaign continues at an unacceptable level, and I have had to conclude that the ordinary law cannot deal comprehensively or quickly enough with such ruthless viciousness.

The Army and the RUC are to produce a draft which can be looked at from both the legal and political angles.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1861')
	The Army and the RUC are to produce a draft which can be looked at from both the legal and political angles.

g. in the direction of segregating the hard-	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6258')
	12. Initial discussions with the Northern Ireland Government, conducted at the end of last week, indicated that they were likely to accept the need for changes both in the legal forms relating to internment (e.g. in the direction of informing the internee of the grounds for interning him) and in the administrative treatment of those in internment (e.g. in the direction of segregating the hard-

(ii) The Special Powers Act will be replaced by fresh legislation enacted at Stormont providing that in future emergency measures, including internment, may not be instituted except after the proclamation of an Emergency which will require the approval of the United Kingdom Secretary of State.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7226')
	The Special Powers Act will be replaced by fresh legislation enacted at Stormont providing that in future emergency measures, including internment, may not be instituted except after the proclamation of an Emergency which will require the approval of the United Kingdom Secretary of State. This legislation could be introduced now; but it would not take effect until the current emergency is over.

would do to commerce, industry and indeed the community as a whole I have today made an order prohibiting all processions troughout Northern Ireland, with the exception of customary remembrance day parades organised by ex-servicemen’s organisations, for a period of six months.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_52')
	Because of this, and taking into account also the further, damage which any serious public disorder however occasioned. would do to commerce, industry and indeed the community as a whole I have today made an order prohibiting all processions troughout Northern Ireland, with the exception of customary remembrance day parades organised by ex-servicemen’s organisations, for a period of six months.

(5) The process of internment has provided, and continues to provide, a flow of intelligence on the membership, resources and plans of the IRA.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6958')
	The process of internment has provided, and continues to provide, a flow of intelligence on the membership, resources and plans of the IRA. 
interrupted the IRA could re-group with impunity. 7. 
If this flow were

that your remarks have made much 
more difficult the task of all of us who want to see people of both communities in Northern Ireland sharing the benefits and undertaking some of the responsibilities of an ordered society, and can only strengthen the hand of the extremists.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5902')
	that your remarks have made much 
more difficult the task of all of us who want to see people of both communities in Northern Ireland sharing the benefits and undertaking some of the responsibilities of an ordered society, and can only strengthen the hand of the extremists.

Possible changes in the law or legal procedure are being considered by an inter-departmental group.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7842')
	Possible changes in the law or legal procedure are being considered by an inter-departmental group.

If he landed here they would certainly lift him under the special powers but I gather that there is no hope of being able to use these outside Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5824')
	They are satisfied that they have got nothing 
on which they could issue a warrant. If he landed here they would certainly lift him under the special powers but I gather that there is no hope of being able to use these outside Northern Ireland.

6. THE DECISION IS, OF COURSE, FAULKNER’S , SINCE THE POWERS UNDER WHICH THESE MEASURES ARE TAKEN ARE POWERS OF THE NORTHERN IRELAND GOVERNMENT.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_180')
	THE DECISION IS, OF COURSE, FAULKNER’S , SINCE THE POWERS UNDER WHICH THESE MEASURES ARE TAKEN ARE POWERS OF THE NORTHERN IRELAND GOVERNMENT.

So how can one possibly bring internment to a sudden end against that background?	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6634')
	So how can one possibly bring internment to a sudden end against that background? No responsible government could take such an unjustifiable risk with the lives of soldiers and policemen and loyal citizens generally.

the names on the list. This really means vetting 
D J TREVELYAN 8 August 1972 
Jl Division	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1757')
	e in your discussions tomorrow. 
I attach a draft of a possible statement on arrest policy which may be I have no doubt that we can Justify 
(a) to (e); but this will not give the army anything like what they want. have therefore added (f) which might be a possible fall-back position. 
I If 
this provision were to be added, we should have to make sure that the army do not add a large number of names to the list on the assumption that everybody knows everything in Northern Ireland. 
the names on the list. This really means vetting

The Secretary of State is probably right in saying that "We cannot go on indefinitely increasing the number of people held". But what alternative does he suggest?	('PREM_15_1693', 'IMG_9159')
	The Secretary of State is probably right in saying that "We cannot go on indefinitely increasing the number of people held". But what alternative does he suggest? And, more generally, does he see any real end to sectarian terrorism in the foreseeable future?

and there certainly will be no qualms on my part about agreement from the Northern Ireland Government that the RUC should carry arms as and when it’s regarded that they should do se by the Chief Constable and I don’t think I’m stretching it at all to say that the United Kingdom Government would hold similar views to mine on that.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5239')
	I will never be swayed in an way by political pressure 
whether from my own Party or elsewhere on security matters, I’ve made this clear all alone, whether it relates to internment or to arming of the police or whatever, but I will be guided absolutely by the Chief Constable of the Loyal Ulster Constabulary on this matter, I will always seek his advice, and there certainly will be no qualms on my part about agreement from the Northern Ireland Government that the RUC should carry arms as and when it’s regarded that they should do se by the Chief Constable and I don’t think I’m stretching it at all to say that the United Kingdom Government would hold similar views to mine on that.

THE MILITARY OPERATIONS TO WHICH YOU REFER ARE DESIGNED SOLELY FOR THE DEFENCE OF THE PEOPLE AGAINST ARMED TERRORISTS WHOSE ACTIVITIES, MANY OF WHICH ORIGINATE IN OR ARE SUPPORTED FROM THE REPUBLIC, I HOPE YOU WOULD DEPLORE AND JOIN US IN SUPPRESSING.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5860')
	THE MILITARY OPERATIONS TO WHICH YOU REFER ARE DESIGNED SOLELY FOR THE DEFENCE OF THE PEOPLE AGAINST ARMED TERRORISTS WHOSE ACTIVITIES, MANY OF WHICH ORIGINATE IN OR ARE SUPPORTED FROM THE REPUBLIC, I HOPE YOU WOULD DEPLORE AND JOIN US IN SUPPRESSING.

5. 
is very difficult to lay down precise criteria to define those Protestant terrorists who should be arrested. With the 
It 
exception of the UVF, Protestant extremist organisations are not in themselves illegal; it is not therefore possible to regard all those holding certain defined positions in Protestant organisations	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1814')
	With the 
It 
exception of the UVF, Protestant extremist organisations are not in themselves illegal; it is not therefore possible to regard all those holding certain defined positions in Protestant organisations

In 
other words is internment, with all its disadvantages, preferable to direct rule ? 
16th March, 1971	('PREM_15_476', 'IMG_5453')
	In 
other words is internment, with all its disadvantages, preferable to direct rule ?

I 24. There is no doubt that the informatio obtained by ches two ~ 
tions directly and indirectly was responsible for the saving of lives of inn cnt citizens.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_1943')
	There is no doubt that the informatio obtained by ches two ~ 
tions directly and indirectly was responsible for the saving of lives of inn cnt citizens.

Significantly, Security Forces arrested yet another recently released internee as he was seen to run away after getting out of the car.	('DEFE_13_1358', 'IMG_9660')
	The second car bomb loaded with approximately 200 lbs, exploded in Marlborough Street. Significantly, Security Forces arrested yet another recently released internee as he was seen to run away after getting out of the car.

Lord Carrington has however stipulated that on each occasion when the new policy is put into effect it must be presented as the consequence of some recent outbreak of terrorism on the IRA’s part, rather than as an initiative on the part of the Army.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_256')
	Lord Carrington has however stipulated that on each occasion when the new policy is put into effect it must be presented as the consequence of some recent outbreak of terrorism on the IRA’s part, rather than as an initiative on the part of the Army.

13. 
A. The general rules involved were approved Following the decision of the Northern Ireland Government, after Interrogation was authorised by the Northern Ireland Government, 
Did Ministers know precisely what methods of interrogation would be used?	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5131')
	Following the decision of the Northern Ireland Government, after

For our part, we made it clear that there could be no question of our accepting internment, and instructing our forces to help to implement it, if it was not accompanied by a complete ban on marches and parades of all kinds; and we have made clear our present view that that ban will need to remain in force lasts, though the extension 
six months remains 
formally open for discussion.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_200')
	For our part, we made it clear that there could be no question of our accepting internment, and instructing our forces to help to implement it, if it was not accompanied by a complete ban on marches and parades of all kinds; and we have made clear our present view that that ban will need to remain in force lasts, though the extension 
six months remains 
formally open for discussion.

IRA morale 18. 
There are hints in recent intelligence assessments that IRA 
morale may be beginning to crack slightly as arrests and casualties continue at their present level.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_6049')
	There are hints in recent intelligence assessments that IRA 
morale may be beginning to crack slightly as arrests and casualties continue at their present level.

H.M. Government have no intention of keeping these provisions in force a moment longer than is necessary.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9322')
	It will become clear(once the Bill is passed) that detention procedures are temporary and that, given an end to the appalling conditions which make them necessary, they will be allowed to lapse. H.M. Government have no intention of keeping these provisions in force a moment longer than is necessary.

I. . 2. 3. re 4, 
, cutu e of te zicage’neQ 1n H Ireland -rmy troupe -T6 fecorasitd In u 1i ntlftvis er fiatoriae.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2240')
	, cutu e of te zicage’neQ 1n H Ireland -rmy troupe -T6 fecorasitd In u 1i ntlftvis er fiatoriae.

(c) 
above will be questioned in this second way immediately.	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1760')
	(c) 
above will be questioned in this second way immediately.

If in the event it were not needed for this primary purpose it would provide emergency accommodation of a reasonable standard for use by a battalion.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2272')
	If in the event it were not needed for this primary purpose it would provide emergency accommodation of a reasonable standard for use by a battalion.

7. This is not action taken against any responsible and law- 
abiding section of the community.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2163')
	This is not action taken against any responsible and law- 
abiding section of the community. Nor is it in any way punitive or indiscriminate.

Intenos are to be treated fairly but frmly.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2151')
	ntenos are to be treated fairly but frmly. No monber of the Staif 
ecr.-Powers of Cnimanda .: 
will be ptrmitted to adopt an aggressivo or buying manuiortownl them.-

These are: 
(a) Paragraph (b) of the Army letter envisages that persons may be arrested under Regulation 10 "for purposes of questioning prior to preferment of criminal charges". I am uncertain whether an arrest for such purposes would properly be within the powers conferred by Regulation 10. When we redrafted the main policy document,	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1871')
	Paragraph (b) of the Army letter envisages that persons may be arrested under Regulation 10 "for purposes of questioning prior to preferment of criminal charges". I am uncertain whether an arrest for such purposes would properly be within the powers conferred by Regulation 10. When we redrafted the main policy document, our main object was to preserve the powers of arrest under Regulation 11(1); these powers contemplate that persons so arrested could, in certain circumstances, be brought before the courts and the powers of arrest relate to any person whom the arresting officer "suspects of acting or of having acted or being about to act in a manner prejudicial to the preservation of the peace or the maintenace of order" and so on.

Their terms of 
reference are:- "To investigate allegations by those arrested on 9 August under the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act Northern Ireland) 1922 of physical brutality while in the custody of the security forces prior to either their subsequent release,	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5629')
	"To investigate allegations by those arrested on 9 August under the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act Northern Ireland) 1922 of physical brutality while in the custody of the security forces prior to either their subsequent release, the preferring of a criminal charge or their being lodged in a place specified in a detention order".

6. 
That is his judgment of the situation, and of 
course the decision is his, though he has reached it afte consultation with us.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_200')
	That is his judgment of the situation, and of 
course the decision is his, though he has reached it afte consultation with us.

The Situation in Northern Ireland 3. 
In considering the Committees report it is important to 
have in mind the circumstances in Northern Ireland in which the Northern Ireland Government decided to exercise their powers under the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act (Northern Ireland) 1922 to arrest, detain or intern persons suspected of having acted or being about to act in a manner prejudicial to the preservation of the peace or the maintenance of order.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5160')
	In considering the Committees report it is important to 
have in mind the circumstances in Northern Ireland in which the Northern Ireland Government decided to exercise their powers under the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act (Northern Ireland) 1922 to arrest, detain or intern persons suspected of having acted or being about to act in a manner prejudicial to the preservation of the peace or the maintenance of order.

The Secretary of State said that the Prime Minister and Lord Carrington had explained to him that they fully understood the SDLP position and that the views of the SDLP would be considered; however, as yet, no decision had been taken on the ending of internment.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7898')
	The Secretary of State said that the Prime Minister and Lord Carrington had explained to him that they fully understood the SDLP position and that the views of the SDLP would be considered; however, as yet, no decision had been taken on the ending of internment. The Secretary of State said that he knew that this outcome would disapoint the SDLP but he hoped that they would be patient since more time was needed.

CLEARLY THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNMENT IN NORTHERN IRELAND COULD HAVE BEN INCREASED IF YOU HAD FELT ABLE TO TAKE SIMILAR MEASURES ON YOUR SIDE OF THE BORDER.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	CLEARLY THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNMENT IN NORTHERN IRELAND COULD HAVE BEN INCREASED IF YOU HAD FELT ABLE TO TAKE SIMILAR MEASURES ON YOUR SIDE OF THE BORDER. BUT I JUDGED FROMOUR AMBASSADORS REPORT OF HIS RECENT TALK WITH YOU THAT THERE WAS NO PROSPECT OF THAT, AND IC COULD NOT THEREFORE HOLD OUT THIS POSSIBILITY AS AN INDUCEMENT TO FAULKNER TO HOLD HIS HAND.

We hve however made clear our view that the measures The marches due in Derry on 
12 August and in Belfast at the end of the month will not now take place.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_187')
	taken should not discriminate as between the different sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable. 
We hve however made clear our view that the measures The marches due in Derry on 
12 August and in Belfast at the end of the month will not now take place.

It must however be remembered in this context that under Section 2(4) of the Act a person is deemed to be guilty of an offence against the Regulations if he does an act "of such a nature as to be calculated to be prejudicial to the preservation of the pace or maintenance of order". This however would not include a person suspected of acting or having acted, etc.,	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2175')
	The person arrested may not be guilty of a crime although he may be suspected or it. It must however be remembered in this context that under Section 2(4) of the Act a person is deemed to be guilty of an offence against the Regulations if he does an act "of such a nature as to be calculated to be prejudicial to the preservation of the pace or maintenance of order".

This was the line which the Northern 
Ireland Government were proposing to take about what had happened.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4988')
	there might well be situations when, in an emergency, the Government had to take action which was against the law and then pass an Act of Indemnity subsequently, but such occasions would necessarily be rare. 
This was the line which the Northern 
Ireland Government were proposing to take about what had happened.

of terrorists would make it more difficult to achieve a political solution.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6710')
	of terrorists would make it more difficult to achieve a political solution.

required so far as possible to follow normal procedures as regards rules of evidence and standards of proof.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4922')
	required so far as possible to follow normal procedures as regards rules of evidence and standards of proof. This would not do for us.

The document of authority for arrest night be used to Justify an arrest under togulation 10 or regulation 11 of th Civil Authorities (peoisa. 
1 warn you Powers) 
Act (Northern Ireland) I22, There is also a pOwer of arrest conferred by BSotion 7(1) of the Act, but in different torms to, and with results differont from what follows on any arrest purported to e made under Regulationa 10 or 11.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4939')
	he document of authority for arrest night be used to Justify an arrest under togulation 10 or regulation 11 of th Civil Authorities (peoisa. 
1 warn you Powers) 
Act (Northern Ireland) I22, There is also a pOwer of arrest conferred by BSotion 7(1) of the Act, but in different torms to, and with results differont from what follows on any arrest purported to e made under Regulationa 10 or 11.

8. 
We have however sought to ensure that the measures 
taken do not discriminate as between the different sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2194')
	We have however sought to ensure that the measures 
taken do not discriminate as between the different sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable. 
Protestant as well as Catholic 
and I.R.A. extremists will be liable to internment

IN PURELY 
MILITARY TERMS, SEEKING TO CONTAIN THE SITUATION BY THE MEANS EMPLOYED HITHERTO WOULD HAVE MEANT AT BEST A LONG HAUL : AND FAULKNERS JUDGEMENT WAS THAT THE CONSEQUENCES OF THAT FOR THE COMMUNITY WOULD BE WORSE THAN THE CONSEQUENCES OF WHAT IS NOW PROPOSED.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	IN PURELY 
MILITARY TERMS, SEEKING TO CONTAIN THE SITUATION BY THE MEANS EMPLOYED HITHERTO WOULD HAVE MEANT AT BEST A LONG HAUL : AND FAULKNERS JUDGEMENT WAS THAT THE CONSEQUENCES OF THAT FOR THE COMMUNITY WOULD BE WORSE THAN THE CONSEQUENCES OF WHAT IS NOW PROPOSED.

The transfer of law and order except on the narrowest interpretation (and there are a number of gradations) would involve us in responsibility for internment.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6703')
	The transfer of law and order except on the narrowest interpretation (and there are a number of gradations) would involve us in responsibility for internment. How far is internment to be brought into the political package?

We understand that the authorities accepted that in consequence of this security requirement, the operation would be carried out with a considerable element of local improvisation and might be attended by some administrative confusion, but that they considered this to be the lesser evil in relation to the paramount need to maintain security and achieve surprise.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5185')
	We understand that the authorities accepted that in consequence of this security requirement, the operation would be carried out with a considerable element of local improvisation and might be attended by some administrative confusion, but that they considered this to be the lesser evil in relation to the paramount need to maintain security and achieve surprise.

7. AT YESTERDAY’S MEETING, THE SECRETARY OF STATE SAID THAT 
THERE WAS NO REAL DIFFERENCE BETWEEN HMG AND THE SDLP ON THE NDING OF INTERNMENT AS AN OBJECTIVE: THE DIFFERENCE WAS ON 
TIMING, AND, FOR THE REASONS GIVEN BY HIM AT THE PREVIOUS MEETING, IT WAS NOT POSSIBLE EITHER TO END INTERNMENT IMMEDIATELY OR TO GIVE ANY GUARANTEE ABOUT A DATE FOR ITS ENDING, ALTHOUGH THIS WAS KEPT UNDER REVIEW.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7887')
	AT YESTERDAY’S MEETING, THE SECRETARY OF STATE SAID THAT 
THERE WAS NO REAL DIFFERENCE BETWEEN HMG AND THE SDLP ON THE NDING OF INTERNMENT AS AN OBJECTIVE: THE DIFFERENCE WAS ON 
TIMING, AND, FOR THE REASONS GIVEN BY HIM AT THE PREVIOUS MEETING, IT WAS NOT POSSIBLE EITHER TO END INTERNMENT IMMEDIATELY OR TO GIVE ANY GUARANTEE ABOUT A DATE FOR ITS ENDING, ALTHOUGH THIS WAS KEPT UNDER REVIEW.

To my mind, there is no doubt that the Army could arrest a person under these powers for the purpose of bringing that person before the courts.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1871')
	To my mind, there is no doubt that the Army could arrest a person under these powers for the purpose of bringing that person before the courts.

It would be quite wrong to release men who might encourage an upsurge of violence against the security forces or the community in general.	('PREM_15_1006', 'IMG_7292')
	I hope that today’s releases may here.ld the beginning of a phasing-out of internment but I must place on record once more that in considering the cases of internees I must have regard to the current security situation. It would be quite wrong to release men who might encourage an upsurge of violence against the security forces or the community in general.

He thought it would be advantageous if the establishment of special commissions of assize could be considered to deal speedily with offences involving security.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6175')
	As to the trial of those accused of criminal offences, he agreed that speedy justice was important. Delays arose not so much over offences tried summarily before the magistrates as over cases returned for trial by jury. He thought it would be advantageous if the establishment of special commissions of assize could be considered to deal speedily with offences involving security.

There is however a clear and firm understanding between the two governments, frequently renewed and kept in good repair, that there could be no question of internment being adopted without full consultation with HMG.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4854')
	There is however a clear and firm understanding between the two governments, frequently renewed and kept in good repair, that there could be no question of internment being adopted without full consultation with HMG.

(13) FOflAL AUTHORISATION.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_2106')
	(13) FOflAL AUTHORISATION. THE FORMAL AUTHORISATION TO REMOVE CERTAIN wETAINEES TO THE GIV7N BY THE NORTHERN ItLAND KNOWLEDGE AND COCiCURRENCE OF HER

Under Regulation 11(2) a person ay be detained by ardor until (a) he bas been dischared by direction of the Attorney-Geneml or (b) he is brought before a Court of uraarys 
Jurisdiotion.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2172')
	Under Regulation 11(2) a person ay be detained by ardor until (a) he bas been dischared by direction of the Attorney-Geneml or (b) he is brought before a Court of uraarys 
Jurisdiotion.

and therefore one is very likely to have an increasing number of incidents along the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5672')
	As a result of the policy of detention and 
presumably internment will follow, the IRA, the groups, units, in the Belfast area have been badly broken up, and many of them have had to go into the Republic of Ireland where of course they are given complete freedom by the authorities down there, to operate, to train, and to move about arms and gelignite, and therefore one is very likely to have an increasing number of incidents along the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.

(a) In dealing with a terrorist campaign such as that in Northern Ireland intelligence is the key to successful operations; and the key to intelligence is information regarding the operations, dispositions and plans of the terrorists.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5125')
	In dealing with a terrorist campaign such as that in Northern Ireland intelligence is the key to successful operations; and the key to intelligence is information regarding the operations, dispositions and plans of the terrorists.

2 We also read our terms of reference as calling upon us to inquire quite 
generally into the interrogation and custody of persons suspected of terrorism in such circumstances in the future, and not specifically in connection with Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4996')
	We also read our terms of reference as calling upon us to inquire quite 
generally into the interrogation and custody of persons suspected of terrorism in such circumstances in the future, and not specifically in connection with Northern Ireland.

The passage relevant to (b) is as follows :- 
"The Special Powers Regulations provide for the setting up of an Advisory Committee to consider representations from internees.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6842')
	"The Special Powers Regulations provide for the setting up of an Advisory Committee to consider representations from internees. 
His Honour 
Judge Brown nas agreed to act as Chairman of this Committee 
............ The Committee’s 
main function will be to assess whether or when the internee’s release can be safely permitted and, where appropriate, the Committee will consider whether or not they can accept any undertaking on his part that he will not engage in violence on his release."

JOINT SECURIT COMMUNITEE MEETING - 17 FEBRUARY 
19. The security implications of the release of internees was discussed.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6751')
	The security implications of the release of internees was discussed.

may arreat’ without warrant any" Pesn Who is AUspected of having ornmtted an offenoe ataint the hesulAtlonA,	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4939')
	V1efer1,0i to abovP ra rl su Esct ofr havn 9t atml.1eºd anr off’erse againM tigulatien ehlA made under the UivW nuthOrrities (gpasiaol Power+,) An4 (Nettorhrn Ireland) 190, Under 14egulatiion 1l made und01e that Ant any m fifr of’ har Majesty’ Purees on duty, when 0h Moeauioan for the Arrest arises, may arreat’ without warrant any" Pesn Who is AUspected of having ornmtted an offenoe ataint the hesulAtlonA,

still on the wanted list will continue.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5592')
	This means that the relentless pursuit 
of those members of the I.R.A. still on the wanted list will continue.

Arrangements are now being made to earmark individuals to reinforce the intelligence organisation when required; and a Ministry of Defence team is being despatched to examine the accommodation possibilities if a policy of internment is adopted.	('PREM_15_476', 'IMG_5460')
	a Ministry of Defence team is being despatched to examine the accommodation possibilities if a policy of internment is adopted.

Then we have to bear in mind the Diplock enquiry.	('PREM_15_1016', 'IMG_8589')
	Then we have to bear in mind the Diplock enquiry. As I understand 
it, this body is considering what arrangements for the administration of justice in Northern Ireland could be made in order to deal more effectively with terrorist organisations by bringing to book, otherwise

IN ADDITION TO THOSE KILLED BY GUNMEN, EXPLOSIVES HAVE BEEN USED AGAINST POLICE STATIONS, AND ALSO BARS, AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES WHERE CASUALTIES AMONGST ORDINARY CITIZENS WERE INEVITABLE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_165')
	THIS DECISION HAS BEEN MADE IN THE LIGHT OF IRA ACTIVITY WHICH HAS INCREASED BOTH IN VOLUME AND IN THE VICIOUSNESS OF THE ATTACKS ON THE SECURITY FORCES AND SOCIETY IN NORTHERN IRELAND. IN ADDITION TO THOSE KILLED BY GUNMEN, EXPLOSIVES HAVE BEEN USED AGAINST POLICE STATIONS, AND ALSO BARS, AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES WHERE CASUALTIES AMONGST ORDINARY CITIZENS WERE INEVITABLE.

The cases of all former internees and detainees have now been reviewed. 
dealt with were made up of: a. 
b. c. 6. Previous internees Previous detainees Those held on Interim Custody Orders detained included: 
OC Belfast Brigade Provisional IRA IO Belfast Brigade Provisional IRA Staff Officer 1 Bn Provisional IRA 0C 3 Bn Provisional IRA Staff Officer 3 Bn Provisional IRA OC Bogs ide Provisional IRA OC Castlewellan Provisional IRA 
2 30 79 Of the above, they ordered the detention of 102 and released 9. Those The oases	('PREM_15_1690', 'IMG_8715')
	uring February the Commissioners reviewed a further 111 cases. The cases of all former internees and detainees have now been reviewed. 
dealt with were made up of: a. 
b. c. 6. Previous internees Previous detainees Those held on Interim Custody Orders detained included: 
OC Belfast Brigade Provisional IRA IO Belfast Brigade Provisional IRA Staff Officer 1 Bn Provisional IRA 0C 3 Bn Provisional IRA Staff Officer 3 Bn Provisional IRA OC Bogs ide Provisional IRA OC Castlewellan Provisional IRA 
2 30 79 Of the above, they ordered the detention of 102 and rele

IN THE NEAR FUTURE AND OTHERS AT INTERVALS THEREAFTER.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7211')
	THE ESSENTIAL MEASURES ON WHICH WE HAVE DECIDED INCLUDE THE TRANSFER OF FULL RESPONSIBILITY FOR LAW AND ORDER FROM STORMONT TO WESTMINISTER: A REVIEW OF ExiSTING INTERNMENT ORDERS SO THAT THE LESS IMPORTANT INTERNEES ARE PROGRESSIVELY RELEASED: THE APPOINTMENT OF A SECRETARY OF STATE FOR NORTHERN IRELAND AS A MEMBER OF MY GOVERNMENT: AID A SYSTEM OF REGULAR PLEBISCITES ABOUT THE BORDER, THE FIRST TO BE HELD AS SOON AS PRACTICABLE. IN THE NEAR FUTURE AND OTHERS AT INTERVALS THEREAFTER.

The procedures contain all possible safeguards against injustice.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9321')
	The procedures contain all possible safeguards against injustice.

extremists will be liable to internment and the marches due in Derry on 12 August .	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2194')
	We have however sought to ensure that the measures 
taken do not discriminate as between the different sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable. 
Protestant as well as Catholic 
and I.R.A. extremists will be liable to internment and the marches due in Derry on 12 August .and in Belfast at the end of the month will not take place.

4. 
For Custodians A separate complex of buildings which would All the facilities for the internees and their custodians can be 
designed to double for Service accommodation so that the camp can be used for that purpose.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2276')
	All the facilities for the internees and their custodians can be 
designed to double for Service accommodation so that the camp can be used for that purpose.

withdrawal of one major firm could start an exodus.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2219')
	withdrawal of one major firm could start an exodus.

- especially if internment were (5) The Cabinet must face up to this choice and decide which way they 
wish to go.	('PREM_15_1004', 'IMG_7095')
	It would probably be more sustainable politically than the Home Secretary’s proposals 
- both as giving less offence to the 
Government’s supporters at Westminster and as involving less risk of a Protestant backlash in Ulster. But even this cannot be assumed too lightly relaxed as part of the deal. 
- especially if internment were

The judges’ rules were simply not compatible with the gaining of intelligence.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1932')
	In an ideal society, a person arrested would be taken straight to an RUC Station and treated within the strict application of the judges’ 
rules. 
But Northern Ireland was far from an ideal society, indeed a state of war existed here. The judges’ rules were simply not compatible with the gaining of intelligence. In Mr Johnston’s view it was still essential to gain intelligence 
- the initiative might fail, or it might take a 
long time to succeed: in any event it would be wrong of the security forces not to keep themselves well informed of the threat of subversion. Interrogation was necessary to produce the intelligence which the security forces needed.

even though there is no evidence to justify criminal proceedings;	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1760')
	anyone known to be in the most senior ranks of the Provisional IRA, even though there is no evidence to justify criminal proceedings;

THE SECURITY FORCES ARE ACCORDINGLY ARRESTING AND DETAINING PEOPLE SUSPECTED OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMMITTING OR ABETTING ACTSOF TERRORISM AND OTHER BREACHES OF THE PEACE DESIGNED TO LEAD TO A BREAKDOWN OF LAW ANDORDER IN NORTHERN IRELAND.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	THE SECURITY FORCES ARE ACCORDINGLY ARRESTING AND DETAINING PEOPLE SUSPECTED OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMMITTING OR ABETTING ACTSOF TERRORISM AND OTHER BREACHES OF THE PEACE DESIGNED TO LEAD TO A BREAKDOWN OF LAW ANDORDER IN NORTHERN IRELAND.

When Mr. Whitelaw lunched today with Cardinal Heenan he 
discovered that the Cardinal had very little idea of the new procedures for detention.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9316')
	When Mr. Whitelaw lunched today with Cardinal Heenan he 
discovered that the Cardinal had very little idea of the new procedures for detention. 
Cardinal Heenan said that he did not 
believe that the changes we have made were understood in Rome. In the light of this conversation and of the Cardinal’s favourable reaction to what he was told, Mr. Whitelaw thinks that there is all the stronger case for sending a further message to the Pope.

But I have made no Internment Order without 
being satisfied on evidence placed before me that the person concerned was and still is an active member of the Official or Provisional Wing of the I.R.A.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5589')
	But I have made no Internment Order without 
being satisfied on evidence placed before me that the person concerned was and still is an active member of the Official or Provisional Wing of the I.R.A. or has been closely implicated in the recent I.R.A. campaign.

Internees were all given notice of their rights and were allowed legal advice in the preparation of their cases; but legal representation was not allowed at their appearance before the Committee, which was conducted in strict confidence with only the members of the Committee present, each of whom was provided with the relevant documents.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6175')
	Internees were all given notice of their rights and were allowed legal advice in the preparation of their cases; but legal representation was not allowed at their appearance before the Committee, which was conducted in strict confidence with only the members of the Committee present, each of whom was provided with the relevant documents.

If it emerges, during questioning, that an arrested person cannot be charged 
consideration will be given to 
a possible application for an interim custody order, where the grounds appear to be sufficient 
c. Anyone known to be holding officer rank in the Provisional 
IRA even though there is no evidence to justify criminal charges.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1808')
	Anyone known to be holding officer rank in the Provisional 
IRA even though there is no evidence to justify criminal charges.

Our hope.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2194')
	Our hope. certainly is that they can be strictly: temporary, and will serve to reestalbish a situation in which the many social and other reforms that have been introduced are recognised at their true value, and progress can again be resumed on the task of building more harmonious inter-community relations in Northern Ireland.

You will know that it is my intention to seek the agreement of my colleagues to new procedures which in the event or internment being brought at an end will make It possible to keep in custody those members of the IRA whose continued liberty is a threat to security.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1856')
	You will know that it is my intention to seek the agreement of my colleagues to new procedures which in the event or internment being brought at an end will make It possible to keep in custody those members of the IRA whose continued liberty is a threat to security.

The SDLP wanted it to end immediately, but they should consider also what his position would be if he appeared "to dance to their tune", It would be wrng for him to give them any guarantees about the ending of internment.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7948')
	He appreciated the arguments advanced for the ending of internment. His problem was primarily one of tiing. The SDLP wanted it to end immediately, but they should consider also what his position would be if he appeared "to dance to their tune", It would be wrng for him to give them any guarantees about the ending of internment. He could not give guarantees to anybody. He had already given evidence of his intention to end internment. B

Indeed we have been told that there will be strong pressure for work to bein in Northern Ireland by the end of this month. 
18 May 1971 Head of DS 6	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2258')
	Indeed we have been told that there will be strong pressure for work to bein in Northern Ireland by the end of this month.

We do not, however, construe our terms of reference as including in We have accordingly confined our 
inquiry to interrogation in circumstances where some public emergency has arisen as a result of which suspects can legally be detained without trial.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4996')
	We have accordingly confined our 
inquiry to interrogation in circumstances where some public emergency has arisen as a result of which suspects can legally be detained without trial.

says he was briefed that, 
"in the interest of security, warders should ensure that detained persons hands were visible and that a degree of discipline be maintained". 
He agreed that this was not a normal duty for Military Police, nor was it the task for which they had been trained; their function and training was to enquire into crime, apprehend criminals, bring arrested personnel back to Barracks, and that guard duty was something with which they were quite unfamiliar. 
/rmy	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4943')
	"in the interest of security, warders should ensure that detained persons hands were visible and that a degree of discipline be maintained".

he thought the best course was to ban the march, accompanying the ban with stern action to dealwith terrorism 
At this point the meeting was interrupted by a telephone call from.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2220')
	Mr. Smith said that he favoured banning the Apprentice Boy’ March in The balance of argument was a difficult one but 
He had in mind the Londonderry on 12th August. 
he thought the best course was to ban the march, accompanying the ban with stern action to dealwith terrorism

This is broadly the procedure which has been adopted in the past in the Republic of Ireland. But the special courts there are	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4921')
	If the problem were simply that juries perversely 
refused to convict, it would be possible by legislation to dispense with the jury system in such cases and to substitute appointed judges, magistrates or assessors. This is broadly the procedure which has been adopted in the past in the Republic of Ireland.

3. [He will also announce that all outstanding applications to start rifle clubs are being refused, and that no new applications will be considered.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_185')
	[He will also announce that all outstanding applications to start rifle clubs are being refused, and that no new applications will be considered.

The Secretary of State said that the release o 47 internees was his immediate response.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7952')
	The Secretary of State said that the release o 47 internees was his immediate response. The SDLP could not expect more at this stage since this was the first occasion on which he had had an opportunity to hear their views and arguments expressed in full.

The fullo out, ignoring any possible assets, would be about £57,000. 
It was agreed that Col Mithley and 1r Cullum would prepare the subisaon, and er Park	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2238')
	It was agreed that Col Mithley and 1r Cullum would prepare the subisaon, and

a. 
As regards wanted men who are still at large, the Government 
would certainly not wish to dispense altogether with the option of arresting ringleaders but it could be hinted fairly clearly that, since witnesses were showing greater willingness to come forward, the emphasis would thenceforth be on prosecution rather than internment and that the latter would in invoked, if at all, only for the most dangerous terrorists who were arrested in future. (The public line on this could be very similar to that	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6574')
	As regards wanted men who are still at large, the Government 
would certainly not wish to dispense altogether with the option of arresting ringleaders but it could be hinted fairly clearly that, since witnesses were showing greater willingness to come forward, the emphasis would thenceforth be on prosecution rather than internment and that the latter would in invoked, if at all, only for the most dangerous terrorists who were arrested in future. (The public line on this could be very similar to that

In addition to the internees, 26 men who were detained under Regulation 11 of the Special Powers Act have been released today.	('PREM_15_1006', 'IMG_7291')
	In addition to the internees, 26 men who were detained under Regulation 11 of the Special Powers Act have been released today.

it would do much to increase public confidence, and the morale of the security forces themselves; their achievements in this regard had been considerable, but they were dimmed by the absence of a swift and manifest outcome of their efforts.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6175')
	it would do much to increase public confidence, and the morale of the security forces themselves; their achievements in this regard had been considerable, but they were dimmed by the absence of a swift and manifest outcome of their efforts.

8. 
A little time ago, I was in touch with Mr. Lynch 
to try to discover whether he was contemplating the possibility of internment south of the border, if we were forced to.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2197')
	A little time ago, I was in touch with Mr. Lynch 
to try to discover whether he was contemplating the possibility of internment south of the border, if we were forced to. it north of the border. Clearly that would have added to its effectiveness; but out discussions shoved that there was no possibility of parallel action south of the border.

The Chief Constable suggested that if it happened that Protestant extremists suspected of murder or other terrorist crime had to be let go after interrogation by the CID they should be re-arrested under Regulation 11 and interrogated by the Special Branch.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1800')
	The Chief Constable suggested that if it happened that Protestant extremists suspected of murder or other terrorist crime had to be let go after interrogation by the CID they should be re-arrested under Regulation 11 and interrogated by the Special Branch.

In pursuit of those objectives, since 30 
March 1972, 724 persons have been released from internment 
or detention; 171 persons are still interned and 70 persons are held in detention.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8052')
	In pursuit of those objectives, since 30 
March 1972, 724 persons have been released from internment 
or detention; 171 persons are still interned and 70 persons are held in detention. During the same period, the law 
enforcement authorities, acting vigorously under the ordinary processes of the criminal law, have achieved considerable success and well over 300 persons have been charged with offences connected with terrorist activities.

which will hear representations for release and make recommendations to me.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2163')
	of access to an advisory committee. which will hear representations for release and make recommendations to me.

We are, quite simply, at war with the terrorist, and in a state of war many sacrifices have to be made, and made in a co-operative and understanding spirit.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_53')
	We are, quite simply, at war with the terrorist, and in a state of war many sacrifices have to be made, and made in a co-operative and understanding spirit.

4 (V) THERE IS NO OBJECTION TO YOUR REFERRING TO PRESSURES, BUT YOU SHOULD STRESS THAT DECISION WOULD BE BASED ON SECURITY ASSESSMENT.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_231')
	WITH REGARD TO YOUR PARA. 4 (V) THERE IS NO OBJECTION TO YOUR REFERRING TO PRESSURES, BUT YOU SHOULD STRESS THAT DECISION WOULD BE BASED ON SECURITY ASSESSMENT.

1. 
In dealing with a terrorist campaign such as that in Northern Ireland, 
intelligence is the key to successful operations, and the key to intelligence is information regarding the operations, dispositions, and plans of the terrorists.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5166')
	In dealing with a terrorist campaign such as that in Northern Ireland, 
intelligence is the key to successful operations, and the key to intelligence is information regarding the operations, dispositions, and plans of the terrorists.

would all be put on a "Westminster emergency" basis.	('PREM_15_1691', 'IMG_8880')
	would all be put on a "Westminster emergency" basis.

I am not aware of any cases where it has been shown that troops 
arrested people who were not wanted simply because they could not find the person they were looking for.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5141')
	What about alleg ations that in several cases the Army arrested the wrong men or seized relatives if they could not get the person they wanted? 
A. In an operation of the kind that was carried out on 9 August 
there were bound to be some cases of mistaken identity. More often than not these could not be sorted out on the snot but once it was established that an arrested man was not the person who was wanted he was released. 
I am not aware of any cases where it has been shown that troops 
arrested people who were not wanted simply because they could not find the person they were looking for.

At least for presentational reasons it might be necessary for some of the internees to be detained and charged in the normal way.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7656')
	At least for presentational reasons it might be necessary for some of the internees to be detained and charged in the normal way.

4. QUITE APART FROM THIS INTERVIEW, IF THE RUMOUR ABOUT INTERNING WOMEN IS FALSE, IT WOULD BE AS WELL TO KILL IT QUICKLY.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6465')
	IF THE RUMOUR ABOUT INTERNING WOMEN IS FALSE, IT WOULD BE AS WELL TO KILL IT QUICKLY. IT IS HARD TO IMAGINE WHAT MILITARY ADVANTAGE IT COULD POSSIBLY HAVE TO OUTWEIGH THE HOSTILITY IT WOULD AROUSE AND THE BOOST IT WOULD GIVE TO THE I R A.

4. 
I have therefore decided, after weighing all the relevant 
considerations, including the views of the security authorities and after consultation with HMG in the UK last Thursday, to exercise where necessary the powers of detention and internment vested in me as Minister of Home Affairs.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2162')
	I have therefore decided, after weighing all the relevant 
considerations, including the views of the security authorities and after consultation with HMG in the UK last Thursday, to exercise where necessary the powers of detention and internment vested in me as Minister of Home Affairs.

The Northern Ireland Office will arrange for the subject to be considered by the Joint Security Committee in Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_1008', 'IMG_7508')
	The arrest of eight men last night, four of whom were on a ’wanted’ list, 
raises the question in what circumstances such arrests should be made. Three of the men are thought to be senior officers of the Belfast Provisionals. The question is which people should be arrested and for what purposes; criminal charges, questioning under the Special Powers Act, or in rare cases detention or internment. The Northern Ireland Office will arrange for the subject to be considered by the Joint Security Committee in Northern Ireland.

We have made clear our view that 
the measures taken should not discriminate as between the different sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_206')
	We have made clear our view that 
the measures taken should not discriminate as between the different sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable.

The principles applied in the interrogation of suspects in Northern Ireland since August this year, and the methods employed (which are necessary not only for reasons of control but also to protect the lives of those being interrogated against the risk of reprisals), are essentially the same as those which have been employed in all emergencies of this kind in which Britain has been involved in recent years. 
The rules now in force, as summarised in paragraph 46 of the report, were issued in 1965 and were revised in 1967 in the light of	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5164')
	The rules now in force, as summarised in paragraph 46 of the report, were issued in 1965 and were revised in 1967 in the light of

They are the present threat: but we will not hesitate to take strong action against any other individuals or organisations who may present such a threat in the future.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2163')
	The main target of the present operation in the Irish 
Republican Army which has been responsible for recent acts of terrorism, and whose victims have included Protestant and Roman Catholic alike. They are the present threat: but we will not hesitate to take strong action against any other individuals or organisations who may present such a threat in the future.

Detention and Internment 
The power of internment is contained in Regulation 12 made under the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Acts (Northern Ireland) 1922-43, 
The power to 
intern is such criticised and is inconsistent with the European Human Rights Convention; a notice of derogation was lodged in 1957. 
The powers contained 
in Regulation 12 were last used during the IRA campaign against Northern Ireland front 1956-62.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2233')
	The power of internment is contained in Regulation 12 made under the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Acts (Northern Ireland) 1922-43,

WE HAVE MADE CLEAR OUR VIEW THAT THE MEASUES 
TAKEN SHOULD NOT DISCRIMINATE AS BETWEEN THE DIFFERENT SECTIONS OF THE COMMUNITY, EXCEPT AS THE FACTS OF THE SITUAION MAKE INEVITABLE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_196')
	WE HAVE MADE CLEAR OUR VIEW THAT THE MEASUES 
TAKEN SHOULD NOT DISCRIMINATE AS BETWEEN THE DIFFERENT SECTIONS OF THE COMMUNITY, EXCEPT AS THE FACTS OF THE SITUAION MAKE INEVITABLE.

I agree that the Pope’s reference to internment was a disappointing feature of his message.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9317')
	I agree that the Pope’s reference to internment was a disappointing feature of his message. The message suggests a possible misunderstanding of the situation.

It might be possible to bring all persons interned under the present procedure before the special court for discharge or committal to preventive detention. 
It must be regarded as doubtful whether provision of the 
kind described could properly be made under either the Special Powers Act or the Northern Ireland (Temporary Provisions) Act 1972. Apart from the political consideration that it involve a new departure for which the United Kingdom Parliament might demand a Bill from the legal point of view the new law would contain provisions making it extremely doubtful whether they are within the powers of the Parliament of Northern Ireland, and hence of an Order in Council under	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7786')
	It might be possible to bring all persons interned under the present procedure before the special court for discharge or committal to preventive detention.

Anyone caught in the company of someone caught in the act of committing or having just committed a criminal offence if there is reason to think he may be able to give information about the offence or important information about the IRA generally.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_1973')
	Anyone caught in the company of someone caught in the act of committing or having just committed a criminal offence if there is reason to think he may be able to give information about the offence or important information about the IRA generally.

The Secretary of State said that "political" status and the wearing of ciilian clothing would not be possible.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7663')
	The Secretary of State said that "political" status and the wearing of ciilian clothing would not be possible.

Unless you take the place in our community which awaits you, all of us will be the losers.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2165')
	I appeal to you to come out and join us in building this community up again: not to restore it simply to what it was, for many of us in the past have failed each other, but to build it on better, sounder and stronger lines. Unless you take the place in our community which awaits you, all of us will be the losers.

Second, that there should be a gradual reduction in internment beginning 
with those internees who could be released without unacceptable risks.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7179')
	Second, that there should be a gradual reduction in internment beginning 
with those internees who could be released without unacceptable risks.

AT THE LAST TWO DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS MEETINGS GREAT STRESS HAS BEEN LAID ON THE FOOLISHNESS OF ALLOWING THE ARREST RATE TO BE DETERMINED BY THE ACCOMMODATION AVAILABLE.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6194')
	THE POLICE AND THE ARMY ARE FIRM IN THE VIEW THAT THE INTELLIGENCE THEY ARE NOW REAPING FROM THE INTERNMENT OPERATION MUST BE EXPLOITED TO THE FULL, AND USED IN A CONTINUING EFFORT TO ROLL UP THE IRA. AT THE LAST TWO DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS MEETINGS GREAT STRESS HAS BEEN LAID ON THE FOOLISHNESS OF ALLOWING THE ARREST RATE TO BE DETERMINED BY THE ACCOMMODATION AVAILABLE.

6. I CANNOT OF COURSE COMMENT ON THE EFFECT IN THE NORTH, BUT I AM SURE IT WOULD HAVE A STEADYING EFFECT IN THE SOUTH IF, IN ADDITION TO THE DETAILS SUGGESTED IN MY TEL NO 302, H.M.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_169')
	I CANNOT OF COURSE COMMENT ON THE EFFECT IN THE NORTH, BUT I AM SURE IT WOULD HAVE A STEADYING EFFECT IN THE SOUTH IF, IN ADDITION TO THE DETAILS SUGGESTED IN MY TEL NO 302, H.M.G. COULD TAKE UP MR FAULKNER’S APPEAL TO THE CATHOLICS (FINAL PARAGRAPH OF HIS STATEMENT OF 9 AUGUST) BY STATING VERY CLEARLY THAT INTERNMENT IS ONLY A MEANS TO AN END AND THAT THIS END IS THE RAPID CREATION OF A SOCIETY FROM WHICH DISCRIMINATION AND INJUSTICE HAD BEEN ELIMINATED.

This is simply untrue.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5590')
	It is alleged that internment is being directed against the Catholic 
section of the population. This is simply untrue.

I USER I NRERNEN -IN ULSTER 
PARIEDES BANED 
INTERNfE w WAs IKROUCED IN NORC HflHRN .	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2168')
	INTERNfE w WAs IKROUCED IN NORC HflHRN .R LA1DTCAY A’S "E 
LATEST S’i)P IN 7iSE AUTHORITIES! CAMPA14N AGAINST TE 
4.R A

Lynch was 
known to be willing, and Hillery, who was in many ways an awkward customer, had specifically said to O’Sullivans "We would certainly do it - I 
Sir Burke St.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6565')
	(c) the internment of the I.R.A. by the Dublin Government. 
5. Naturally I asked whether the Irish Government was in a position to deliver (c). On this the Ambassador was most emphatic. 
Lynch was 
known to be willing, and Hillery, who was in many ways an awkward customer, had specifically said to O’Sullivans "We would certainly do it - I

4. Arrest Policy 
MOD stressed their need for a directive on arrest policy for Protestant extremists.	('PREM_15_1015', 'IMG_8393')
	MOD stressed their need for a directive on arrest policy for Protestant extremists.

Persons who may be members of the Civil Rights 
Movement or the People’s Democracy, or of other organisation, are being interned only if they are also members of the I.R.A.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5589')
	Persons who may be members of the Civil Rights 
Movement or the People’s Democracy, or of other organisation, are being interned only if they are also members of the I.R.A. or actively involved in it.

I should like details of when internment has been used previously.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5759')
	I should like details of when internment has been used previously. 
or threatened, on either side of he border, and of the results of its use. It would also be valuable to have any useful quotations that exit on internment made by Labour spokesmen.

since it 
represente the issue where Mr. Faulkner can least afford to give ground but Mr. Lynch may be most concerned to extract some concession as his price for supporting the Horne Secretary’s discussions (if he is otherwise prepared to do so). Begin by trying to get agreement that no democratic government can 
afford to give way to violence and that,	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5707')
	This may be the most difficult part of the discussion, since it 
represente the issue where Mr. Faulkner can least afford to give ground but Mr. Lynch may be most concerned to extract some concession as his price for supporting the Horne Secretary’s discussions (if he is otherwise prepared to do so). Begin by trying to get agreement that no democratic government can 
afford to give way to violence and that, if violence escalates to a certain pitch, there may be no alternative to some kind of internment policy.

(c) anyone known to be in the most senior ranks of the Provisional IRA,	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7929')
	anyone known to be in the most senior ranks of the Provisional IRA, even though there is no evidence to justify criminal proceedings;

BUT WE HAVE MADE IT CLEAR TO FAULKNER THAT THERE COULD BE NO QUESTION OF OUR ACCEPTING INTERNMENT, AND INSTRUCTING OUR FORCES TO HELP TO IMPLEMENT IT, IF IT WAS NOT ACCOMPANIED BY A COMPLETE BAN ON MARCHES AND PARADES OF ALL KINDS: AND WE HAVE MADE CLEAR OUR PRESENT VIEW THAT THAT BAN WILL NEED TO REMAIN IN FORCE FOR LONGER THAN SIX MONTHS, ALTHOUGH THE EXTENSION AFTER SIX MONTHS REMAINS FORMALLY OPEN FOR DISCUSSION.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_196')
	BUT WE HAVE MADE IT CLEAR TO FAULKNER THAT THERE COULD BE NO QUESTION OF OUR ACCEPTING INTERNMENT, AND INSTRUCTING OUR FORCES TO HELP TO IMPLEMENT IT, IF IT WAS NOT ACCOMPANIED BY A COMPLETE BAN ON MARCHES AND PARADES OF ALL KINDS: AND WE HAVE MADE CLEAR OUR PRESENT VIEW THAT THAT BAN WILL NEED TO REMAIN IN FORCE FOR LONGER THAN SIX MONTHS, ALTHOUGH THE EXTENSION AFTER SIX MONTHS REMAINS FORMALLY OPEN FOR DISCUSSION.

Intelligence is the key to successful operations against terrorists; and the key to intelligence is information regarding their operations, their dispositions, and their plans.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5191')
	Intelligence is the key to successful operations against terrorists; and the key to intelligence is information regarding their operations, their dispositions, and their plans. When combating 
a terrorist campaign time is of the essence; information must be sought while it is still fresh so that it may be used as quickly as possible to effect the capture of persons, arms and explosives and thereby save the lives of members of the security forces and of the civil population.

Intelligence- 
based operations work slowly, but as they succeed, develop a snowball effect. 
The dividend from internment shows signs of entering this	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6221')
	based operations work slowly, but as they succeed, develop a snowball effect. 
The dividend from internment shows signs of entering this

Each soldier making an arrest was instructed to say: "I am arresting you under the powers conferred by the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act (Northern Ireland) 1922" 
and to add, if a person questioned the arrest in any way, no more than: "I am not required to give any further explanation. I warn you that if you resist arrest you may have committed an offence"	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5185')
	"I am arresting you under the powers conferred by the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act (Northern Ireland) 1922"

These arrangements should be such as to reduce to the minimum the extent to which Service personnel are required to have actual physical custody of the persons arrested.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2179')
	Assisting the police as may be agreed locally with arrangements 
to implement the conditions of custody specified under para 2b above. These arrangements should be such as to reduce to the minimum the extent to which Service personnel are required to have actual physical custody of the persons arrested.

The rest of us cannot truly be free while people determined to commit such outrages are at large.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_53')
	The action we have now taken does not indicate any policy of repression. We are acting not to suppress freedom, but to allow the overwhelming mass of our people to enjoy freedom including freedom from fear of the gunman, of the nightly explosion, of fire-raising, of kangaroo courts and all the apparatus of terrorism. The rest of us cannot truly be free while people determined to commit such outrages are at large.

During the same period, the law 
enforcement authorities, acting vigorously under the ordinary processes of the criminal law, have achieved considerable success and well over 300 persons have been charged with offences connected with terrorist activities.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8052')
	In pursuit of those objectives, since 30 
March 1972, 724 persons have been released from internment 
or detention; 171 persons are still interned and 70 persons are held in detention. During the same period, the law 
enforcement authorities, acting vigorously under the ordinary processes of the criminal law, have achieved considerable success and well over 300 persons have been charged with offences connected with terrorist activities.

(ATTRIBUTABLE) 
I. INTERNEES CAN MAKE REPRESENTATIONS TO AN ADVISORY COMMITTEE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_166')
	INTERNEES CAN MAKE REPRESENTATIONS TO AN ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

Those on the run would be encouraged to return to their units.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6958')
	Any decision to make no further arrests would be regarded by the IRA as a still greater achievement; they could be expected to take the opportunity to recoup their losses and to equip themselves to intensify operations at a date of their own choosing. 
Those on the run would be encouraged to return to their units.

a Fauilx1er, reinforced by fort’"awY 9 ., Is it agreed that this should be available not only for the preparation of cases but also or the actual hearinga ?	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6185')
	(3) Legal representation. 
a Fauilx1er, reinforced by fort’"awY 9 ., Is it agreed that this should be available not only for the preparation of cases but also or the actual hearinga ?

(Note: recent military visits to Rathlin Island have already led to public speculation whether an internment camp was being contemplated there). 
10. Hutted Camps.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2295')
	This would be bound to attract public comment and it would be impossible to keep the true reason for the work from becoming known. (Note: recent military visits to Rathlin Island have already led to public speculation whether an internment camp was being contemplated there).

The pace of releases will depend on 
the state of public security and the effect upon it e: of the release of particular internees whose cases are under review.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7231')
	As soon as responsibility has been trans- 
ferred an immediate review will be put in hand by this Government of all internment orders with a view to revoking as many of them as possible consistent with public safety. 
The Government have taken 
this decision after consultation with their military advisors. 
Some .... are to be immediately, 
released and in the category of those who should in the near future be released there are some more names. 
The pace of releases will depend on 
the state of public security and the effect upon it e: of the release of particular internees whose cases are under review.

41. What about alleg ations that in several cases the Army arrested the wrong men or seized relatives if they could not get the person they wanted?	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5141')
	What about alleg ations that in several cases the Army arrested the wrong men or seized relatives if they could not get the person they wanted? 
A. In an operation of the kind that was carried out on 9 August 
there were bound to be some cases of mistaken identity. More often than not these could not be sorted out on the snot but once it was established that an arrested man was not the person who was wanted he was released. 
I am not aware of any cases where it has been shown that troops 
arrested people who were not wanted simply because they could not find the person they were looking for.

was the setting up of some form of Commission which would review the reasons for internment and the procedure which has so far been adopted.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6306')
	was the setting up of some form of Commission which would review the reasons for internment and the procedure which has so far been adopted.

An advisory committee will be set up, to which 
any one who is interned will have the right to make representations.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_206')
	An advisory committee will be set up, to which 
any one who is interned will have the right to make representations.

PFPLE IN ULSTE RI - ’:ITIER 
THE ;IReAr NOR INDEE MY OTHER OCRANUISATtIN 
WI:LL E. ALLOWED TO ACHIEVE ThS BY FORCE OF ARMSy’* }i DECIAREDQ EARLIER HR9 DEVlJNm A EEMER C: THE SOCIAL DEPOCRATiC 
AND LA!	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5601')
	TM NORTHERN IRELAND LEADER Q19 THEY WERE "ENGAGOD 
:N A DEADLY STRUGGLE AGAINST AN ARMED CONSPIRACY WHOSE ItriEDTE e-URPOSE kT TS TO DESTROY THE PEAJET STABILITY AND SECURI’1Y uF TH4-S PART OF THE UrKp ’ITS ULTMATE A:M VAS TO OERTHROW THE DEMOCRATIMALLY 
ACCFPT VWISHES OF THE AJ(RITY C? PFPLE IN ULSTE RI - ’:ITIER 
THE ;IReAr NOR INDEE MY OTHER OCRANUISATtIN 
WI:LL E. ALLOWED TO ACHIEVE ThS BY FORCE OF ARMSy’* }i DECIAREDQ

There were other aspects of the interrogation process (the manner of accommodating the prisoner between interrogations etc) where it might be difficult for Ministers to defend the present procedure 
- but if these procedures were valuable to Special Branch,	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1932')
	There were other aspects of the interrogation process (the manner of accommodating the prisoner between interrogations etc) where it might be difficult for Ministers to defend the present procedure 
- but if these procedures were valuable to Special Branch, 
then if the reasons for this could be explained Ministers would be prepared to defend them:

Because of the strong recommendation made to him, Lord Windlesham intended to sign this Detention Order, but before doing so asked that Mr Johnston should explain to him the process of interrogation which the man was now likely to face.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1931')
	Lord Windlesham explained that in the Secretary of State’s absence he was being invited to sign a Detention Order for a prisoner whom the RUC thought should be interrogated for longer than the 48-hour period which they would otherwise have been limited to. Because of the strong recommendation made to him, Lord Windlesham intended to sign this Detention Order, but before doing so asked that Mr Johnston should explain to him the process of interrogation which the man was now likely to face.

Both the memorandum and the letter rely heavily on the joint paper which the army and the police submitted to the Northern Ireland Joint Security Committee 
No modification to the 
operation of the internment policy until violence has ended except for some improvements in the conditions of the internment camps.	('PREM_15_1004', 'IMG_7056')
	Both the memorandum and the letter rely heavily on the joint paper which the army and the police submitted to the Northern Ireland Joint Security Committee 
No modification to the 
operation of the internment policy until violence has ended except for some improvements in the conditions of the internment camps.

DRAFT STATEMENT ON NORTHERN IRELAND POLITICAL PROGRESS IN NORTHERN IRELAND IS BOUND TO BE 
IMPEDED SO LONG AS VIOLENCE AND INTIMIDATION CONTINUE: AND THE PURPOSE OF INTERNMENT, AND OF THE ARMY’S MEASURES WHICH ARE DIRECTED IMPARTIALLY AT VIOLENCE FROM WHATEVER QUARTER, IS TO RESTORE TO NORTHERN IRELAND THE NECESSARY DEGREE OF STABILITY FOR FURTHER POLITICAL ADVANCE.	('PREM_15_486', 'IMG_6393')
	POLITICAL PROGRESS IN NORTHERN IRELAND IS BOUND TO BE 
IMPEDED SO LONG AS VIOLENCE AND INTIMIDATION CONTINUE: AND THE PURPOSE OF INTERNMENT, AND OF THE ARMY’S MEASURES WHICH ARE DIRECTED IMPARTIALLY AT VIOLENCE FROM WHATEVER QUARTER, IS TO RESTORE TO NORTHERN IRELAND THE NECESSARY DEGREE OF STABILITY FOR FURTHER POLITICAL ADVANCE.

It would be said that he had been persuaded by the SDLP and had done a deal with them, but he was prepared to accept that.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7951')
	The Secretary of State said that he had thought over what the SDLP had said to him the previous day. As an earnest of his intentions he had just signed release orders for 47 internees. It would be said that he had been persuaded by the SDLP and had done a deal with them, but he was prepared to accept that.

before making a final decision.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2298')
	But the Northern Ireland Goverment have a firm commitment to consult H.M.G. before making a final decision.

You had yourself often said, and I have supported this view, that you would be guided by the recommendations of the security authorities.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_220')
	You had yourself often said, and I have supported this view, that you would be guided by the recommendations of the security authorities.

Some sites will lend themselves better to this than others (but see para 4 below). 
d. Security.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2293')
	Cover Story. If preparations reach the actual construe 
tion stage and secrecy remains paramount it is clear that some cover story would need to be devised. Some sites will lend themselves better to this than others (but see para 4 below).

Regulation 12 already empowers 
the Minister of Home Affairs to make conditions of residence and reporting to the police and the like as an alternative to internment.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7251')
	Regulation 12 already empowers 
the Minister of Home Affairs to make conditions of residence and reporting to the police and the like as an alternative to internment. 
If we took over internment, we could 
further modify the Regulation (and indeed it is understood that the Northern Ireland Government themselves had the possibility of a provision for conditional release in mind in any revision of the Regulations). 
But if under the 
existing Regulation internment were converted to a residence and reporting condition in the case of individuals it would seem to carry the advantage that the individuals would not cease to be persons judged to be a danger to public safety.

There are criminals in both communities who may have 
committed serious offences during the disturbances of recent years.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5591')
	There are criminals in both communities who may have 
committed serious offences during the disturbances of recent years. They are subject to the same rigours of the law as any other criminal and many so-called extreme Protestants are at present serving heavy sentences. Others who may have taken part in recent disturbances will be brought to justice when they have been identified and the facts investigated. 
I 
repeat that internment is being confined to members of unlawful associations committed to violence against whom the ordinary law has, in present circumstances, proved ineffective.

But a period of three days would be no longer than the period for which men have been held in the past under a combination of Regulation 10 and Regulation 11. It is suggested therefore that you should agree that suspects arrested under Regulation 11 may now be held for questioning for up to 72 hours before being charged, released or made the subject of a detention order.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1865')
	It is suggested therefore that you should agree that suspects arrested under Regulation 11 may now be held for questioning for up to 72 hours before being charged, released or made the subject of a detention order. Where arrests are made under Regulation 10 in the first instance the total period should still not exceed 72 hours. 5. 
The Attorney General would support this proposal.

The second car bomb loaded with approximately 200 lbs, exploded in Marlborough Street.	('DEFE_13_1358', 'IMG_9660')
	The second car bomb loaded with approximately 200 lbs, exploded in Marlborough Street. Significantly, Security Forces arrested yet another recently released internee as he was seen to run away after getting out of the car.

Planning for internment is bound to create considerable political and public interest and concern; by keeping plans secret the security forces may have a better chance of gathering the right men in the net (but see para 4 below). 
c. Cover Story.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2293')
	Cover Story. If preparations reach the actual construe 
tion stage and secrecy remains paramount it is clear that some cover story would need to be devised. Some sites will lend themselves better to this than others (but see para 4 below).

Orders had been made only in respect of people actively engaged in terrorism, and he had in fact refused to make orders in a few cases.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6175')
	Orders had been made only in respect of people actively engaged in terrorism, and he had in fact refused to make orders in a few cases.

7. 
The British Government have noted that the Advisory Committee on 
Internees has started its work and this committee will examine each case, and the cases of those who remain interned will be kept under continuous review.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6188')
	The British Government have noted that the Advisory Committee on 
Internees has started its work and this committee will examine each case, and the cases of those who remain interned will be kept under continuous review. The Committee will have full access to the documentary material relevant to their work and the right to interview officials. In presenting himself to the Committee an internee will be entitled to legal aid and the presence of his legal adviser. The Prime Minister and Minister for Home Affairs of Northern Ireland has already stated that although the role of the Committee is an advisory one he would expect to accept its advice. In the exceptional circumstance in which he did not feel able to do so he would return the case to the Committee for its further consideration giving his reasons for doing so.

Standards 13. The standards of living and recreation space and other amenities are considered to be adequate and defensible but will need to be confirmed.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2278')
	The standards of living and recreation space and other amenities are considered to be adequate and defensible but will need to be confirmed.

and their recent.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_189')
	The latest series of acts of terrorism by the I.R.A. and their recent.

security forces achievements - this was only to be expected.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_153')
	security forces achievements - this was only to be expected.

The Commission recognised that there was a continuing need for detention by the executive, but they proposed, amongst other things, various changes in court procedures which will be of considerable assistance to the Security Forces.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_160')
	The Commission recognised that there was a continuing need for detention by the executive, but they proposed, amongst other things, various changes in court procedures which will be of considerable assistance to the Security Forces.

Without doubt a key issue is internment.	('PREM_15_1006', 'IMG_7290')
	Without doubt a key issue is internment. Let no-one be under any illusion. The people who are behind the wire were put there because of the dangerous situation confronting this community in the recent past.

These are:- 
a. Status.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2290')
	Status. The present terms of reference state that internees should be treated as convicted criminals. The Home Office official was most unhappy with this definition and believed that there would be humanitarian pressures to provide for creature comforts.

HQNI ARE SEEKING THIS APPROVAL FROM THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE AND IN VIEW OF THE O(VIBUS POLITICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF AN EXTENSON, I AM WITH THEIR KNOWLEDGE FREWARNNQ YOU OF 6HS.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6195')
	HQNI ARE SEEKING THIS APPROVAL FROM THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE AND IN VIEW OF THE O(VIBUS POLITICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF AN EXTENSON, I AM WITH THEIR KNOWLEDGE FREWARNNQ YOU OF 6HS.

that they were calling off their campaign without making public the agreement that 30 days later the British Government would respond by ending internment.	('PREM_15_1004', 'IMG_7110')
	that they were calling off their campaign without making public the agreement that 30 days later the British Government would respond by ending internment.

situation "" ’1p trorist could help in this connection.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4848')
	"" ’1p trorist could help in this connection.

9 AUGUST 
1. MR FAULKNER, THE PRIME MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND, ANNOUNCED THIS MORNING, 9 AUGUST, THAT AFTER WEIGHING ALL THE RELEVANT CONSIDERATIONS, INCLUDING THE VIEWS OF THE SECURITY AUTHORITIES, AND AFTER CONSULTATION WITH THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT, THE NORTHERN IRELAND COVERNENT HAD DECIDED TO ACTIVATE ITS POWERS OF INTERNMENT.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_165')
	MR FAULKNER, THE PRIME MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND, ANNOUNCED THIS MORNING, 9 AUGUST, THAT AFTER WEIGHING ALL THE RELEVANT CONSIDERATIONS, INCLUDING THE VIEWS OF THE SECURITY AUTHORITIES, AND AFTER CONSULTATION WITH THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT, THE NORTHERN IRELAND COVERNENT HAD DECIDED TO ACTIVATE ITS POWERS OF INTERNMENT.

If there were a genuine end of terrorism,even for a limited period, there would be a genuine response from the Governmentand,subject to consultations with his colleagues, he did not rule out the ending of internment in these circumstances.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7662')
	The Secretary of State said that he could not risk ending internment without an end of violence. If major acts of terrorism took place after the ending of internment his position would be impossible. If there were a genuine end of terrorism,even for a limited period, there would be a genuine response from the Governmentand,subject to consultations with his colleagues, he did not rule out the ending of internment in these circumstances.

fdireotorate of Werehip Design; should visit Belfast next Tue examinee on the spot MAIDSTONE a suitability for an internment "theiextent to which modifications would be needed before ehe c 
safelyy be-used for that purpose.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2289')
	modifications would be needed before ehe c 
safelyy be-used for that purpose.

Earlier this week the GOC reported to the Defence Secretary, and also to the Home Secretary, that renewed pressure was building up within Mr. Faulkner’s Government for firm action against the IRA; and Mr. Faulkner has himself been in touch with the Home Secretary to suggest that the time may have come to think again about internment.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_255')
	As you know, although the main Protestant parades of July 
passed off without giving rise to any serious incidents, there has been a significant worsening in recent weeks in the amount and nature of terrorist activity in Northern Ireland, with frequent bomb attacks on an increasing scale and also the outbreaks of extremely vicious street fighting in Londonderry where there had previously been very little trouble for many months. This activity is clearly the work of the IRA; and the GOC has confirmed that the signs are that this body is getting better organised and more efficient in its methods. Earlier this week the GOC reported to the Defence Secretary, and also to the Home Secretary, that renewed pressure was building up within Mr. Faulkner’s Government for firm action against the IRA; and Mr. Faulkner has himself been in touch with the Home Secretary to suggest that the time may have come to think again about internment.

We are at present engaged in a deadly struggle against an armed 
conspiracy whose immediate purpose it is to destroy the peace, stability and security of this part of the United Kingdom.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5588')
	We are at present engaged in a deadly struggle against an armed 
conspiracy whose immediate purpose it is to destroy the peace, stability and security of this part of the United Kingdom. 
I say the immediate purpose. The ultimate purpose is the overthrow by violence the clear and 
democratically expressed wish of the majority of the people of Northern Ireland to remain part of the United Kingdom. 
Neither the I.R.A., nor 
indeed any other organisation, will be allowed to achieve this by force of arms, though the present campaign of violence may have gained the support of some, who while professing to deplore the methods of the I.R.A., are in sympathy with its aims.

HE WONDERED WHETHER IT WOULD BE USEFUL TO DEVISE A PROGRAMME FOR RELEASE OF INTERNEES WHICH COULD BE STARTED ONCE VIOLENCE HAD BEEN BROUGHT UNDER CONTROL.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6773')
	HE WONDERED WHETHER IT WOULD BE USEFUL TO DEVISE A PROGRAMME FOR RELEASE OF INTERNEES WHICH COULD BE STARTED ONCE VIOLENCE HAD BEEN BROUGHT UNDER CONTROL.

2. From this it will be seen that arrests are linked to the prospect of bringing criminal charges, except in the case of categories c. and d. - 
ie.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1814')
	From this it will be seen that arrests are linked to the prospect of bringing criminal charges, except in the case of categories c. and d. - 
ie. Provisional officers and certain 
volunteers.

When there is evidence, arrests can therefore be made with a view to charges being brought.	('DEFE_13_1358', 'IMG_9853')
	It has been confirmed that there is no objection to charges being brought 
of membership of the IRA, being an unlawful association under the Special Powers Act. When there is evidence, arrests can therefore be made with a view to charges being brought.

Already, since the The Prime irister said that he did 
not disagree with the Pope’s views on internment; the sooner it could be got rid of the better.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8245')
	Already, since the The Prime irister said that he did 
not disagree with the Pope’s views on internment; the sooner it could be got rid of the better.

If the court found the case proved, it would commit the accused to preventive detention, and there would be provision for release by the Secretary of State on conditional licence.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7787')
	If the court found the case proved, it would commit the accused to preventive detention, and there would be provision for release by the Secretary of State on conditional licence. The duration of the detention would also be affected by the duration of the Act itself.

It must be added that these are capable of inflicting casualties 
on the security forces and of maintaining limited attacks on civilian targets for some time to come, especially outside Belfast.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6957')
	It must be added that these are capable of inflicting casualties 
on the security forces and of maintaining limited attacks on civilian targets for some time to come, especially outside Belfast.

These losses have to some extent been 
Some units Several 
In Belfast the IRA are particularly short of leadership, experience and Taking the situation in Northern 
Ireland as a whole, about 140 important members on the wanted list are now in the Irish Republic.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6957')
	made good, but the officers of some companies have had to be replaced two or three times over and volunteers are now reluctant to come forard. 
in Belfast have ceased to exist and others have been amalgamatod. 
areas have been completely cleared of IRA and increasing pressure is being brought to bear on areas where groups are still active. 3. 
technical skill in the use of explosives. These losses have to some extent been 
Some units Several 
In Belfast the IRA are particularly short of leadership, experience and Taking the situation in Northern 
Ireland as a whole, about 140 important members on the wanted list are now in the Irish Republic. 
The severe dislocation of command and communication systems 
has left behind something more in the nature of a cell structure, and operations are largely carried out by small active service units, many of them based in the South.

In fact for the Army it would be "business as usual" at least until there were real signs of the intention of a ceasefire being translated into fact.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_159')
	The Security Forces would continue to take action against those who break the law or who engage in terrorist activities. In fact for the Army it would be "business as usual" at least until there were real signs of the intention of a ceasefire being translated into fact.

In further discussion the Secretary of State said that if violence genuinely ended the possibility of ending internment quickly woulc arise.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7656')
	In further discussion the Secretary of State said that if violence genuinely ended the possibility of ending internment quickly woulc arise.

4. IN ANY PROGRAMME OF RELEASE FOR POLITICAL REASONS THE IRA WILL CERTAINLY REGARD THE MEASURE AS PROOF OF THEIR OWN SUCCESS.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6772')
	IN ANY PROGRAMME OF RELEASE FOR POLITICAL REASONS THE IRA WILL CERTAINLY REGARD THE MEASURE AS PROOF OF THEIR OWN SUCCESS. IT MAY ALSO BE SO REGARDED BY MEMBERS OF THE SECURITY FORCES AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC.

(UNATTRIBUTADLE) 
L. IF ASKED WHY THE NORMAL PROCESSES OF LAW DO NOT SUFFICE, YOU SHOULD POINT TO THE EVIDENCE OF INTIMIDATION, BEATINGS, TARRING AND FEATHERINGS, AND UNEXPLAINED DEATHS WHICH HAVE OCCURRED IN AREAS WHERE THE IRA IS KNOWN TO BE STRONG.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_167')
	IF ASKED WHY THE NORMAL PROCESSES OF LAW DO NOT SUFFICE, YOU SHOULD POINT TO THE EVIDENCE OF INTIMIDATION, BEATINGS, TARRING AND FEATHERINGS, AND UNEXPLAINED DEATHS WHICH HAVE OCCURRED IN AREAS WHERE THE IRA IS KNOWN TO BE STRONG.

SECURITY IMPLICATIONS 2. ALL THE INTERNEES ARE MEMBERS OF THE IRA: CONSEQUENTLY THERE IS NO POOL OF INTERNEES WHO ARE MERELY POLITICAL ACTIVISTS.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6772')
	ALL THE INTERNEES ARE MEMBERS OF THE IRA: CONSEQUENTLY THERE IS NO POOL OF INTERNEES WHO ARE MERELY POLITICAL ACTIVISTS. THERE IS AN INHERENT RISK THAT ANY INTERNEE RELEASED AS A POLITICAL GESTURE WILL RETURN TO HIS PREVIOUS ACTIVITIES IN NORTHERN IRELAND, REPAIRING THE SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE WHICH HAS BEEN INFLICTED ON BOTH FACTIONS OF THE IRA SINCE 9 AUG 71.

Then, try to get Mr. Faulkner to justify the way in which internment 
has been carried out and the treatment which has been given to the internees.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5707')
	Then, try to get Mr. Faulkner to justify the way in which internment 
has been carried out and the treatment which has been given to the internees. (Some reference to the conditions at Long Kesh; the Red Cross inspection; the derogation under the European Convention on Human Rights, etc

It will be considered always in conjuncti with Ref A. 
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS 
The Object of Interrogation 3. 
Under the present arrest policy most people arrested are being questioned with 
a view towards criminal charges being brought; but those against whom charges cannot be brought are being questioned for intelligence purposes according to instructions already issued (Ref A). This will continue.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_2001')
	Under the present arrest policy most people arrested are being questioned with 
a view towards criminal charges being brought; but those against whom charges cannot be brought are being questioned for intelligence purposes according to instructions already issued (Ref A).

(3) The IRA would regard any programme of release for political reasons as an important success.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6958')
	The IRA would regard any programme of release for political reasons as an important success. 
and the general public. 
It would also be so regarded by members of the Security Forces The IRA could, therefore, dictate future terms.

the buildings as accommodation for ritiah troops.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2263')
	and the alternative 
i use of. the buildings as accommodation for ritiah troops.

I think one should rewind the House, who will hear a great deal 
about the evils of interment, about the far greater evils of the I.R.A. This, 
i think, calls for some details of (a) 
(b) (c) their activities and their callousness; 
the open statements they have made about their activites; and 
their recent demands as a price of calling off their campaign.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5759')
	I think one should rewind the House, who will hear a great deal 
about the evils of interment, about the far greater evils of the I.R.A. This, 
i think, calls for some details of (a) 
(b) (c) their activities and their callousness; 
the open statements they have made about their activites; and 
their recent demands as a price of calling off their campaign.

(iii) 
The Cabinet must now decide whether they regard these counter proposals as:- 
(a) 
adequate in substancebearing in mind that internment and security would be only joint functions,	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7244')
	The Cabinet must now decide whether they regard these counter proposals as:- 
(a) 
adequate in substancebearing in mind that internment and security would be only joint functions, with no certainty that the will of the United Kingdom Government would prevail; and that the "further constitutional changes" which the Northern Ireland Government envisage would not in fact guarantee the minority an effective share in the government and administration of the Province as of right

that there might well be situations when, in an emergency, the Government had to take action which was against the law and then pass an Act of Indemnity subsequently, but such occasions would necessarily be rare.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4988')
	there might well be situations when, in an emergency, the Government had to take action which was against the law and then pass an Act of Indemnity subsequently, but such occasions would necessarily be rare. 
This was the line which the Northern 
Ireland Government were proposing to take about what had happened.

5. The possible grounds are two-fold: the potential need fo 
an Internment camp an an instrument of the fight against terrorism to which both HMG and the Stormont Government are 
committed; and the alternative use of the buildings as accommod tion for British troops.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2255')
	the potential need fo 
an Internment camp an an instrument of the fight against terrorism to which both HMG and the Stormont Government are 
committed; and the alternative use of the buildings as accommod tion for British troops.

Moreover, it was not a 
question of regarding a ban on marches as some kind of political offset against internment.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_212')
	Moreover, it was not a 
question of regarding a ban on marches as some kind of political offset against internment. The Protestants in Northern Ireland would regard internment as no more than a merited punishment for the violence of the IRA and their Roman Catholic supporters; they would not see it at all as something which required a corresponding gesture on the part of themselves. Since the Government would need full Protestant support for any new initiatives on political reconciliation which they might be able to undertake, it would be foolish to alienate Protestant support by an indiscriminate ban on marches.

Extract from TH WORLD AT ON Philip Whitfield/Lord Chalfont 
TRANSMISSION: 30th August 1971 CHALFONT: 
As a result of the policy of detention and 
presumably internment will follow,	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5673')
	As a result of the policy of detention and 
presumably internment will follow, the IrA, the groups, units, in the Belfast area have been badly broken up, and many of them have had to go into the Republic of Ireland where of course they are given complete freedom by the authorities down there, to operate, to train, and to move about arms and gelignite, and therefore one is very likely to have an increasing number of incidents along the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.

subject to the insertion of the words "in present circumstances" between "not" and "recommending" in the first line of paragraph 3. 
I should perhaps add that while endorsing the GOC’s’view 
that internment should not at present be recommended on military grounds the Ministry of Defence entirely accepts that the final decision must rest with Ministers who will have to take into account both military and political considerations.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2203')
	the Ministry of Defence entirely accepts that the final decision must rest with Ministers who will have to take into account both military and political considerations.

Security policies will inevitably be resented in those sections of the community in which are found those deemed to be working against the security of the whole community.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4973')
	Security policies will inevitably be resented in those sections of the community in which are found those deemed to be working against the security of the whole community. There may well result a real belief on the part of some that the working of such policies is an attack on the rights of a minority. It is sadly true, however, that this belief, although mistaken, is actively fostered by others.

To-morrow’s meeting will provide a convenient opportunity to check whether they endorse this view in political terms.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7697')
	To-morrow’s meeting will provide a convenient opportunity to check whether they endorse this view in political terms.

Anyone in Northern Ireland is as free to express his views The only reason anyone is interned 
is that he belongs to, and has actively supported, an organisation which advocated and uses violence for political ends.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5589')
	as before within the limits of the law. 
Anyone in Northern Ireland is as free to express his views The only reason anyone is interned 
is that he belongs to, and has actively supported, an organisation which advocated and uses violence for political ends.

mitigated by the fact that it is unreasonable to suppose that all the least dangerous internees can be released at once.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7250')
	mitigated by the fact that it is unreasonable to suppose that all the least dangerous internees can be released at once.

Because the violence had reached a level threatening the life of the community, the United Kingdom Government had been reluctantly convinced that internment was necessary.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_148')
	Progress was not, however, possible while violence reigned. It was the duty of both Governments to deal with gunmen. The United Kingdom was determined that violence should be dealt with impartially from whatever quarter it might come. Because the violence had reached a level threatening the life of the community, the United Kingdom Government had been reluctantly convinced that internment was necessary.

if there is reason to think he may be able to give information about the offence or important information about the IRA generally 
(f) 
anyone who is reliably known to be in possession of information which he is likely to divulge under questioning about persons holding the most senior ranks in the IRA or the whereabouts of stores of arms and ammunition.	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1760')
	anyone caught in the company of someone caught in the act of committing, or having just committed, a criminal offence, if there is reason to think he may be able to give information about the offence or important information about the IRA generally 
(f) 
anyone who is reliably known to be in possession of information which he is likely to divulge under questioning about persons holding the most senior ranks in the IRA or the whereabouts of stores of arms and ammunition. 
The Secretary of State would 2. Anyone arrested, except under (c) 
expect the number of arrests of such persons to be small.]

AND IF THE IRA SEE THAT DETERMINATION - SEE IT MANIFEST IN PUBLIC OPINION, IN THE EXPRESSIONS OF ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES, IN THE ACTION OF THE GOVERNMENT 
- THEN THEY WILL COME QUICKLY TO THE REALISATION 
THAT IT IS POINTLESS TO CONTINUE.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6926')
	A VICTORY FOR TERRORISM IN ANY PART OF THE UNITED KINGDOM WOULD BE A SIGNAL TO EVERY ANTI-DEMOCRATIC ELEMENT IN THE NATION THAT THE FABRIC OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY IS WIDE OPEN TO ATTACK. THE MAIN LINE OF BATTLE MAY, AT THE MOMENT, LIE THROUGH ULSTER, BUT IT IS TRULY A NATIONAL STRUGGLE AND THE WHOLE BRITISH PEOPLE MUST, IN A FULL REALISATION OF WHAT IS AT STAKE, BE DETERMINED TO WIN IT. AND IF THE IRA SEE THAT DETERMINATION - SEE IT MANIFEST IN PUBLIC OPINION, IN THE EXPRESSIONS OF ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES, IN THE ACTION OF THE GOVERNMENT 
- THEN THEY WILL COME QUICKLY TO THE REALISATION 
THAT IT IS POINTLESS TO CONTINUE.

The SDLP could not expect more at this stage since this was the first occasion on which he had had an opportunity to hear their views and arguments expressed in full.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7952')
	The Secretary of State said that the release o 47 internees was his immediate response. The SDLP could not expect more at this stage since this was the first occasion on which he had had an opportunity to hear their views and arguments expressed in full.

2. 
The points for possible discussion this evening are: a. 
Interrogation of Detainees We are told that 
the RUC team who have been doing the interrogation have already obtained so much material that they want to break off the questioning while they analyse the information already gleaned.	('DEFE_13_917', 'IMG_2394')
	Interrogation of Detainees We are told that 
the RUC team who have been doing the interrogation have already obtained so much material that they want to break off the questioning while they analyse the information already gleaned.

This will be done only after a careful scrutiny of information furnished to me by the police in respect of each ouch person, sufficient to convince me that the individual in question is a threat to present peace and maintenance of order. Any such person will then have the right	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2162')
	This will be done only after a careful scrutiny of information furnished to me by the police in respect of each ouch person, sufficient to convince me that the individual in question is a threat to present peace and maintenance of order. Any such person will then have the right

In the light of this conversation and of the Cardinal’s favourable reaction to what he was told, Mr. Whitelaw thinks that there is all the stronger case for sending a further message to the Pope. I attach the following documents:- 
A draft introductory telegram to our Minister to the Holy See (Flag A’) 
A draft message from you to the Pope (Flag ’B) 
A memorandum which the Minister would deliver with your message (Flag ’C’) 
The Pope’s message of 5 April (Flag ’D’) 12 April 1973	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9316')
	When Mr. Whitelaw lunched today with Cardinal Heenan he 
discovered that the Cardinal had very little idea of the new procedures for detention. 
Cardinal Heenan said that he did not 
believe that the changes we have made were understood in Rome. In the light of this conversation and of the Cardinal’s favourable reaction to what he was told, Mr. Whitelaw thinks that there is all the stronger case for sending a further message to the Pope.

our policy. These things are, and will continue to be, the aims of	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5161')
	"If Northern Ireland is to survive and prosper, two things are essential. We must sustain a continuing programme of economic and social development, and we must find the means to create a more united society here 
- one in which all men of goodwill, 
however divergent their legitimate political views, may participate to the full. 
our policy. These things are, and will continue to be, the aims of

He had pointed out some time ago to Mr. Lynch that, if internment were to be introduced in the South as well as in the North, as it had been during the previous IRA campaign, much quicker and more effective action could be taken against the terrorists.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6710')
	He had pointed out some time ago to Mr. Lynch that, if internment were to be introduced in the South as well as in the North, as it had been during the previous IRA campaign, much quicker and more effective action could be taken against the terrorists.

which was one of the main objectives that the GOC had in mind when he proposed the appointment of a director of internment 
necessary in different constitutional circmstances. - a post which might still be 
A W STEPHENS MINISTRY OF DEFENCE	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6742')
	Senior Prison Governor for Long Kesh 9. 
The GOC has welcomed the move reported in Report No 78, at para 9 
he agrees that it holds promise of achieving a more professional approach to the custody and treatment of internees, which was one of the main objectives that the GOC had in mind when he proposed the appointment of a director of internment 
necessary in different constitutional circmstances. - a post which might still be

You will by now be aware of the statement issued last night by the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland on security policy, of which I attach a copy.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8048')
	You will by now be aware of the statement issued last night by the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland on security policy, of which I attach a copy.

During thin period in he protoctod by the Judges Rules?	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2172')
	During thin period in he protoctod by the Judges Rules?

I have also arranged that in future men who have a genuine reason for parole while my review is taking place 
- to attend a funeral, for example - 
allowed to stay out for twice the present period.	('PREM_15_1006', 'IMG_7291')
	I have also arranged that in future men who have a genuine reason for parole while my review is taking place 
- to attend a funeral, for example - 
allowed to stay out for twice the present period. From three days, to six days. 
I hope to be lenient in other domestic circumstances too. This week, for example, a man was permitted to leave internment to attend a double wedding and I was glad to authorise it.

We are acting not to suppress freedom, but to allow the overwhelming mass of our people to enjoy freedom including freedom from fear of the gunman, of the nightly explosion, of fire-raising, of kangaroo courts and all the apparatus of terrorism.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_53')
	The action we have now taken does not indicate any policy of repression. We are acting not to suppress freedom, but to allow the overwhelming mass of our people to enjoy freedom including freedom from fear of the gunman, of the nightly explosion, of fire-raising, of kangaroo courts and all the apparatus of terrorism.

WHEN LYNCH SUGGESTED THAT CONTINUING INTERNMENT WAS A HELP TO THE PROVISIONALS, THE PRIME MINISTER ARGUED THAT THERE WAS GOOD EVIDENCE, FOR EXAMPLE IN THE RECENT OBSERVER ARTICLE, THAT THE PROVISONALS WOULD CONTINUE SHOOTING EVEN IF INTERNMENT ENDED.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8128')
	WHEN LYNCH SUGGESTED THAT CONTINUING INTERNMENT WAS A HELP TO THE PROVISIONALS, THE PRIME MINISTER ARGUED THAT THERE WAS GOOD EVIDENCE, FOR EXAMPLE IN THE RECENT OBSERVER ARTICLE, THAT THE PROVISONALS WOULD CONTINUE SHOOTING EVEN IF INTERNMENT ENDED.

Because of this, and taking into account also the further, damage which any serious public disorder however occasioned.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_52')
	Because of this, and taking into account also the further, damage which any serious public disorder however occasioned. would do to commerce, industry and indeed the community as a whole I have today made an order prohibiting all processions troughout Northern Ireland, with the exception of customary remembrance day parades organised by ex-servicemen’s organisations, for a period of six months.

WE HAVE RECEIVED THE MESSAGE WHICH YOUR EXCELLENCY KINDLY SENT ON JULY 30TH LAST TO INFORM US ABOUT THE EXCEPTIONAL MEASURES WHICH HAVE BEEN DECIDED ON BY THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT TO PREVENT THE REPETITION IN NORTHERN IRELAND OF THE LAMENTABLE ACTS OF TERRORISM WHICH HAVE SO SHOCKED PUBLIC OPINION AND SO SADDENED US IN THESE DAYS.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_8007')
	WE HAVE RECEIVED THE MESSAGE WHICH YOUR EXCELLENCY KINDLY SENT ON JULY 30TH LAST TO INFORM US ABOUT THE EXCEPTIONAL MEASURES WHICH HAVE BEEN DECIDED ON BY THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT TO PREVENT THE REPETITION IN NORTHERN IRELAND OF THE LAMENTABLE ACTS OF TERRORISM WHICH HAVE SO SHOCKED PUBLIC OPINION AND SO SADDENED US IN THESE DAYS.

3. AS SEEN FROM HERE, THE ONE RATHER DISAPPOINTING POINT RAISED 
ONCE MORE INTHE POPE’S REPLY IS HIS RENEWED PLEA FOR THE PRACTICE OF INTERNMENT WITHOUT TRIAL TO BE ENDED, THIS WAS SOMEWHAT UNEXPECTED AS PARAGRAPHS 58 TO 60 OF THE WHITE PAPER DEALT WITH THIS POINT AND WE HAD SENT THE VATICAN THE TEXT OF MR WHITELAW’S STATEMENT MADE IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS ON 20 DECEMBER LAST ON THE REPORT OF THE DIPLOCK COMMISSION.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9335')
	THIS WAS SOMEWHAT UNEXPECTED AS PARAGRAPHS 58 TO 60 OF THE WHITE PAPER DEALT WITH THIS POINT AND WE HAD SENT THE VATICAN THE TEXT OF MR WHITELAW’S STATEMENT MADE IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS ON 20 DECEMBER LAST ON THE REPORT OF THE DIPLOCK COMMISSION. WE HAD ALSO SENT THE TEXT OF THE PRIME MINISTER’S SIMILAR STATEMENT ON 28 MARCH WHICH AGAIN DEALS WITH INTERNMENT. MOREOVER, THE PRIME MINISTER. HIMSELF HAD EXPLAINED TO THE POPE OUR DIFFICULTIES ABOUT INTERNMENT

There should be no relaxation of the present requirement that before an internee can be released he must first sign an undertaking not to engage in unlawful activity (though the form of the present oath or affirmation may need to be modified). 
The Army hope that those internees who are released 
can be made subject to some form of licence or probation we understand that the legal means may exist to do this.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6779')
	The Army hope that those internees who are released 
can be made subject to some form of licence or probation we understand that the legal means may exist to do this.

Soref The current complete and a collapse was inevitable.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_136')
	The current complete and a collapse was inevitable. 
We should stop social benefits and essential services in the No-Go areas and re-impose internment. 
This is the first example of urban gourilla 
warfare in the United Kingdom and unless it is defeated can only spread.

It is directed against 
an unlawful and ruthless association, whose clear aim it is to overthrow by force of arms the constitution and laws of Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5590')
	It is directed against 
an unlawful and ruthless association, whose clear aim it is to overthrow by force of arms the constitution and laws of Northern Ireland.

As long as soldiers and officials 
act within such powers they require no indemnity because the jurisdiction of the courts is effectively excluded.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7698')
	As long as soldiers and officials 
act within such powers they require no indemnity because the jurisdiction of the courts is effectively excluded.

He said that the Northern Ireland Government had powers 
to order internment, though Major Chichester-Clark had not wished to exercise them.	('PREM_15_476', 'IMG_5438')
	He said that the Northern Ireland Government had powers 
to order internment, though Major Chichester-Clark had not wished to exercise them.

FAUNIR: are queetined.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5240')
	are queetined.

threat and intimidation over decent and responsible men and women.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2163')
	Its benefits should be felt not least in those areas where violent men have exercised a certain away by. threat and intimidation over decent and responsible men and women.

PETER GREGSON FROM PRIME MINISTER ONE OF THE THINGS I MUST HAVE FOR MY MEETING 
WITH MR LYNCH WILL BE FULL DETAILS OF WHAT HAS HAPPENED OVER THE INTERNMENT AND DETAILS OF INTERNEES IN ORDER TO COUNTER THE ARGUMENT THAT MANY OF THEM HAVE NOT BEEN CONCERNED WITH VIOLENCE BUT ARE JUST ACTIVE REPUBLICANS. 
END OF MESSAGE 1 31 AUGUST 1971	('PREM_15_486', 'IMG_6419')
	ONE OF THE THINGS I MUST HAVE FOR MY MEETING 
WITH MR LYNCH WILL BE FULL DETAILS OF WHAT HAS HAPPENED OVER THE INTERNMENT AND DETAILS OF INTERNEES IN ORDER TO COUNTER THE ARGUMENT THAT MANY OF THEM HAVE NOT BEEN CONCERNED WITH VIOLENCE BUT ARE JUST ACTIVE REPUBLICANS.

THE MEASURES TAKEN WILL NOT DISCRIMINATE BETWEEN THE DIFFERENT SECTIONS OF THE COMMUNITY, EXCEPT AS THE FACTS OF THE SITUATION MAKE INEVITABLE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_166')
	INTERNMENT IS AIMED ONLY AGAINST INDIVIDUALS 
CONDUCTING 
VIOLENCE AND TERRORISM, AND NOT AGAINST A RELIGIOUS MINORITY. THE MEASURES TAKEN WILL NOT DISCRIMINATE BETWEEN THE DIFFERENT SECTIONS OF THE COMMUNITY, EXCEPT AS THE FACTS OF THE SITUATION MAKE INEVITABLE.

Following the shooting of L/Sgt McKay 6 men were arrested under SPA 11 of whom 2 have been held for questioning.	('DEFE_13_1358', 'IMG_9567')
	Following the shooting of L/Sgt McKay 6 men were arrested under SPA 11 of whom 2 have been held for questioning.

An understanding should be given that no proceedings should arise out 
of evidence given by witnesses at the trial and defendants shall have a right to a Preliminary Inquiry.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6755')
	An understanding should be given that no proceedings should arise out 
of evidence given by witnesses at the trial and defendants shall have a right to a Preliminary Inquiry.

5. in IRA recruitment.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6957')
	in IRA recruitment. 
There is little evidence that internment has led to a substantial increase On the contrary, recent arrests indicate that most of 
those taking part in terrorist attacks were recruited in the period leading up to August of last year.

(4) Any decision to make no further arrests would be regarded by the IRA as a still greater achievement; they could be expected to take the opportunity to recoup their losses and to equip themselves to intensify operations at a date of their own choosing.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6958')
	Any decision to make no further arrests would be regarded by the IRA as a still greater achievement; they could be expected to take the opportunity to recoup their losses and to equip themselves to intensify operations at a date of their own choosing. 
Those on the run would be encouraged to return to their units.

MI .vt -ad =rth a ’. 
re"amd wi tt detention order reamwd ,aer- at etion order -a fr:m eteti am 
ree 4 ete-r cnsideation by 
eem relesedfr= itaeran.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6784')
	MI .vt -ad =rth a ’. 
re"amd wi tt detention order reamwd ,aer- at etion order -a fr:m eteti am 
ree 4 ete-r cnsideation by 
eem relesedfr= itaeran.t ed from intermet 
i e 2yrte firm for top rrrested in Northern 1 Pzwers ct are as 1o.los. ’Ty are correct up to 
eas moder z + 10 he’A =- 
d-e Mc order

The establishment of the Provisionals had been a spontaneous reaction by the Catholic community to the events of 1969. There would be no real peace unless the internees were finally released.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7656')
	There would be no real peace unless the internees were finally released. They were confident that if the internees were released on the ending of violence, violence would not be resumed.

You asked why Judge Brown’s Advisory Committee on 
Internment Appeals seemed to have come to a standstill.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_6045')
	You asked why Judge Brown’s Advisory Committee on 
Internment Appeals seemed to have come to a standstill. In fact, their work is continuing and the figures in the note which you saw (implying no increase in the number of cases considered over the past week) were incorrect. 64 cases have now been considered. 7 have been released (including 2 released today). They have decided not to release 48 and 9 cases are still pending. But the number of cases considered will continue to grow. The Committee say that the main limitation on their speed of working is the time taken by solicitors to prepare cases for submission to them.

There is no doubt that, if not required for 
internment purposes, the camp could be immediately occupied by troops and thereafter constantly and fully used.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2256')
	There is no doubt that, if not required for 
internment purposes, the camp could be immediately occupied by troops and thereafter constantly and fully used.

The problem of security and public order.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5705')
	The problem of security and public order. 
C. Internment. (This is put separately, and last, partly because it is in a sense the most difficult issue and partly because it bridges A and B, which are therefore beat discussed first).

They told me I was to be interned under the Special Powers Act.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5218')
	They told me I was to be interned under the Special Powers Act.

For our part, we have made it clear that there could be no question of our accepting internment, and instructing our forces to help to implement it, if it was not accompanied.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_192')
	we have made it clear that there could be no question of our accepting internment, and instructing our forces to help to implement it, if it was not accompanied.by a complete ban on marches and parades of all kinds; and we have made clear our present view that that ban will need to remain in force 
nt although the extension after six months remains formally open for discussion.

It will of course be the intention when violence 
has clearly come to an end to wind down any remaining internment as rapidly as this can safely be done.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7246')
	It will of course be the intention when violence 
has clearly come to an end to wind down any remaining internment as rapidly as this can safely be done.

3 The most pressing immediate problems are to agrees 
a. The security problem, both in GB and NI especially concerning the move of reinforcements and briefing of RUC 
b. The PR Line, accepting that the opposition have had ample warning to prepare every form of international opposition to internment without trial; and the need to make STORMONT realise their responsibilities in internment.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2187')
	The security problem, both in GB and NI especially concerning the move of reinforcements and briefing of RUC

The ALJ forms what might be termed an unofficial complaints bureau whereby anyone having a complaint, real or imagined, can-get in touch with willing solicitors who will take down a deposition which has every appearance of a legal document.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1924')
	Though the name of the organisation is ambiguous, the ALJ is not in any sense a legal body but a propaganda group. The ALJ forms what might be termed an unofficial complaints bureau whereby anyone having a complaint, real or imagined, can-get in touch with willing solicitors who will take down a deposition which has every appearance of a legal document.

Ireland which it is our purpose, and I would hope would be your purpose, to achieve.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5865')
	Ireland which it is our purpose, and I would hope would be your purpose, to achieve.

But, although it is our common hope that the 
Home Secretary’s discussions may prepare the way fcr te reconciliation of the communities in Northern Ireland, we recognise that no political initiative of this kind can be expected to succeed in an atmosphere of declared hostility and open violence.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5729')
	But, although it is our common hope that the 
Home Secretary’s discussions may prepare the way fcr te reconciliation of the communities in Northern Ireland, we recognise that no political initiative of this kind can be expected to succeed in an atmosphere of declared hostility and open violence.

A difficulty was now arising for the RUC in that the Courts were saying that such statements were not sufficient on their own. In addition to being satisfied that the statement had been taken under the judges’ rules, the Courts showed	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1931')
	In addition to being satisfied that the statement had been taken under the judges’ rules, the Courts showed

it was for the Northern Ireland Government to decide whether to introduce internment, but that they would not do so without consulting the British Government.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4847')
	it was for the Northern Ireland Government to decide whether to introduce internment, but that they would not do so without consulting the British Government.

There have been complaints of illtreatment in other oases, all of which are investigated, although investigation is frequently difficult when complaints are made through newspapers rather than directly to the authorities concerned.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4974')
	There have been complaints of illtreatment in other oases, all of which are investigated, although investigation is frequently difficult when complaints are made through newspapers rather than directly to the authorities concerned. Action is taken on well-founded complaints but there has been nothing to substantiate the statement in your telegram. Arrangements for medical examinations of internees have been further improved, not only to safeguard the interests of persons arrested but also to prevent baseless allegations.

Though the name of the organisation is ambiguous, the ALJ is not in any sense a legal body but a propaganda group.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1924')
	Though the name of the organisation is ambiguous, the ALJ is not in any sense a legal body but a propaganda group. The ALJ forms what might be termed an unofficial complaints bureau whereby anyone having a complaint, real or imagined, can-get in touch with willing solicitors who will take down a deposition which has every appearance of a legal document.

INTERNMENT, AND OF THE ARMY’S MEASURES WHICH ARE DIRECTED IMPARTIALLY AT VIOLENCE FROM WHATEVER QUARTER, IS TO RESTORE TO NORTHERN IRELAND THE NECESSARY DEGREE OF STABILITY FOR FURTHER POLITICAL ADVANCE.	('PREM_15_486', 'IMG_6394')
	POLITICAL PROGRESS IN NORTHERN IRELAND iS BOUND TO 
IMPEDED SO LONG AS VIOLENCE AND INTIMIDATION CONTINUE: AND THE PURPOSE OF. INTERNMENT, AND OF THE ARMY’S MEASURES WHICH ARE DIRECTED IMPARTIALLY AT VIOLENCE FROM WHATEVER QUARTER, IS TO RESTORE TO NORTHERN IRELAND THE NECESSARY DEGREE OF STABILITY FOR FURTHER POLITICAL ADVANCE.

(The examination will also cover the associated problem of privileges). Arrangements for an interrogation centre are being examined separately.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2273')
	The Home Office (Prison Department’s) advice is that the accommoda- 
tion would be defensible on humanitarian grounds. The proposed arrangements will however be examined in greater detail and any necessary changes reflected in the design. (The examination will also cover the associated problem of privileges).

los. ’Ty are correct up to 
eas moder z + 10 he’A =- 
d-e Mc order	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6784')
	MI .vt -ad =rth a ’. 
re"amd wi tt detention order reamwd ,aer- at etion order -a fr:m eteti am 
ree 4 ete-r cnsideation by 
eem relesedfr= itaeran.t ed from intermet 
i e 2yrte firm for top rrrested in Northern 1 Pzwers ct are as 1o.los. ’Ty are correct up to 
eas moder z + 10 he’A =- 
d-e Mc order

(b) The Legal Position of the Security Forces The Secretaries of State for Northern Ireland and for Defence might be asked whether they are content with the Attorney General’s proposals in paragraphs 10 and 11 that he should normally authorise prosecutions in cases involving physical assault or ill-treatment of persons in custody by members of the security forces but that he would regard as special cases reasonable actions to preserve law and order (for example,	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7696')
	The Secretaries of State for Northern Ireland and for Defence might be asked whether they are content with the Attorney General’s proposals in paragraphs 10 and 11 that he should normally authorise prosecutions in cases involving physical assault or ill-treatment of persons in custody by members of the security forces but that he would regard as special cases reasonable actions to preserve law and order (for example, in particular cases, shooting to prevent the escape of a person whom soldiers are justified in attempting to arrest).

ly.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5722')
	Co1 t to ^^f r.at :v-efx’ T -de h.ve boon GIVn t-hfolowItl; infomation by th Nrthern Irclund 
Covemment in Connection with todny*a Fras Report appoaring in the N.ornin; star abaut coaditiona at LongKeh. 
’here -ro 40 on at preoent accoanodated in hut* originally l;nmned for 
34, but only parts of the crmp uve been coapleted on1 it in ereated that with the comploticn of furthor buildin, work In a fortnigbt’ timthia poition ill be rlt edvL 
14hto thorufore hao 
Co.ng i.s not done by electricity Hlat. by..calor gas. and the un of sorch no ffect on the power availzblo n theo 
.- houcobt 
there are electric hotplatea in the meca hall* and those doveloped a fault yecaterday hilch waa put rIght today. 
acez are standard arg. issiue. 4. 
(zClotn’ nternoea were allowod to bring with them all the clothina they had in ’heir- 
posotwionz. Those uha wioh to obtain a chnm of clotha ctn do so by havbin other c’armenta brou ht in by relations or frienda; alternativelyit thia is not josible clothing is lsued to them. 
5. 
:t;Thy were allowed to tUe in with the books they olready po=nesed and 
further auppla aro .bein- provided at L4on3 Korh a aoo a posible. 75 ews. papera are beins provided free of chAre dr.ly.

the 1972 Actor of the Special Powers Act, The constitution of a court, court procedure including the laws of evidence, an appeal to the Supreme Court (which is a reserved matter) and the deprivation of a remedy for false imprisonment in /circumstances are all involved.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7788')
	the 1972 Actor of the Special Powers Act, The constitution of a court, court procedure including the laws of evidence, an appeal to the Supreme Court (which is a reserved matter) and the deprivation of a remedy for false imprisonment in /circumstances are all involved.

And, provided that internment itself is properly managed (and this is for discussion under a later item on the agenda) and that the Army seem to be continuing to gain the upper hand over the IRA, the Government can probably afford to rest in this position at least for the time being.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6459')
	And, provided that internment itself is properly managed (and this is for discussion under a later item on the agenda) and that the Army seem to be continuing to gain the upper hand over the IRA, the Government can probably afford to rest in this position at least for the time being.

6. If, as postulated, the operation provided for the arrest not only of 
law-breakers but also of suspects on both sides, the police would be heavily involved in documenting, charging, and interrogating.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_36')
	If, as postulated, the operation provided for the arrest not only of 
law-breakers but also of suspects on both sides, the police would be heavily involved in documenting, charging, and interrogating.

For our part, we made it clear that 
there could be no question of our accepting internment, and instructing our forces to help to implement it, if it was not accompanied by a complete ban on marches and parades of all kinds; and we have made clear our present view that that ban will need to remain in force for longer than six months, though the extension beyond six months remains formally open for discussion.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_186')
	For our part, we made it clear that 
there could be no question of our accepting internment, and instructing our forces to help to implement it, if it was not accompanied by a complete ban on marches and parades of all kinds; and we have made clear our present view that that ban will need to remain in force for longer than six months, though the extension beyond six months remains formally open for discussion.

(b) Following the decision of the Northern Ireland Government, after consultation with Her Majesty’s Government, to exercise powers of detention and internment where necessary, the formal authority for the removal of certain individuals from the place specified in their detention orders to the interrogation centre was given by the Northern Ireland Minister of Home Affairs.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5125')
	Following the decision of the Northern Ireland Government, after consultation with Her Majesty’s Government, to exercise powers of detention and internment where necessary, the formal authority for the removal of certain individuals from the place specified in their detention orders to the interrogation centre was given by the Northern Ireland Minister of Home Affairs.

whether his detention is necessary for the protection of the public;	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9321')
	the commissioner must enquire into any case referred to him to see whether the person has been concerned in terrorism, and, if so, whether his detention is necessary for the protection of the public

Strong action against Protestant extremists must be accompanied by continuing action against the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA). If Mr Lynch were re-elected he might be prepared to do more against them in the South.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_19')
	Strong action against Protestant extremists must be accompanied by continuing action against the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA).

MR FAULKNER said that the reaction 
of the minority community was not to be judged solely by reference to the violence that had accompanied the arrests, part of which was attributable to earlier events.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5871')
	MR FAULKNER said that the reaction 
of the minority community was not to be judged solely by reference to the violence that had accompanied the arrests, part of which was attributable to earlier events.

5. During the week a battalion adjutant, two company commanders, a company quartermaster, and two company explosives officers of the Provisional IRA were arrested.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_31')
	During the week a battalion adjutant, two company commanders, a company quartermaster, and two company explosives officers of the Provisional IRA were arrested. The Commissioners courts reviewed 18 cases and confirmed 16 for detention.

Ministers discussed the objectives to be sought 
from a meeting ith Mr. Lynch. These objectives should probably include greater co-operation between Republican and Northern Ireland security forces along the border, stiffening the courts in the Republic, and the introduction of internment in the Republic (though it was thought that Mr. Lynch was unlikely to agree to the last of these proposals unless the IRA began to direct its action against the Republican Government). There might be other objectives to be sought in conversations with r. Lynch in the field of economic and social co-operation; and there might be much to be said	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5879')
	These objectives should probably include greater co-operation between Republican and Northern Ireland security forces along the border, stiffening the courts in the Republic, and the introduction of internment in the Republic (though it was thought that Mr. Lynch was unlikely to agree to the last of these proposals unless the IRA began to direct its action against the Republican Government).

A. In dealing with a terrorist campaign such as that in Northern 
Ireland intelligence is the key to successful operations; and the key to intelligence is information regarding the operations, dispositions and plans of the terrorists.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5131')
	In dealing with a terrorist campaign such as that in Northern 
Ireland intelligence is the key to successful operations; and the key to intelligence is information regarding the operations, dispositions and plans of the terrorists.

We 
explain such tougher measures as we might have it in mind to take (for example, on the border and on internment) so that, if and when these measures were taken, Mr. Lynch would understand the background and would be less likely to react adversely.	('PREM_15_486', 'IMG_6444')
	to Mr. Lynch that the problem in Northern Ireland was now not essentially that of improving the civil rights of the minority but of eradicating terrorism and that the continuance of Mr. Faulkner’s Government (and the 
would then 
be. The Prime Minister’s own conception of the purpose of the meeting is as follows. He would explain frankly 
avoidance of something worse) depends largely on solid progress being made on this issue. We 
explain such tougher measures as we might have it in mind to take (for example, on the border and on internment) so that, if and when these measures were taken, Mr. Lynch would understand the background and would be less likely to react adversely.

b. 
All legal formalities relating to the custody of arrested persons Specifying, in consultation with the officer appointed for that 
purpose by the Brigade, the conditions under which the arrested person are to be held in custody including arrangements for interrogation, exercise, visitors, messing etc.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2179')
	: 
at the centre. b. 
All legal formalities relating to the custody of arrested persons Specifying, in consultation with the officer appointed for that 
purpose by the Brigade, the conditions under which the arrested person are to be held in custody including arrangements for interrogation, exercise, visitors, messing etc.

be released or detained on the order of the Civil Authority in a place of detention.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2179')
	be released or detained on the order of the Civil Authority in a place of detention

are banned until further notice.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2192')
	They will at the same time announce that all marche 
and parades. are banned until further notice.

It would be important to select people who could fairly distinguish between deliberate brutality and the force that had inevitably to be used to bring violent terrorists into custody.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5873')
	It would be important to select people who could fairly distinguish between deliberate brutality and the force that had inevitably to be used to bring violent terrorists into custody.

In the light of the committee’s recommendations to the Minister of Home Affairs of the Northern Ireland Government, eight internees had been released] Two further releases had been made on the advice of the RUC.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5163')
	In the light of the committee’s recommendations to the Minister of Home Affairs of the Northern Ireland Government, eight internees had been released] Two further releases had been made on the advice of the RUC.

’ MAGILLIGAN, BALLYKINLER and The MAIDSTONE are prohibited Rules for opening fire are contained in the "Yellow 
The unit commander appointed at each centre and MAIDSTONE is fully 
briefed as to the legal aspects of his duties as detailed above. b. 
An adequate supply of CS Gas and Baton Rounds are held in reserve Any attempt to escape or ay disturbane is reported immediately	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2180')
	The unit commander appointed at each centre and MAIDSTONE is fully 
briefed as to the legal aspects of his duties as detailed above.

campaign to end internment and the belief that it rill succeed keeps their morale higher than is generally the case with men still at large.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6958')
	campaign to end internment and the belief that it rill succeed keeps their morale higher than is generally the case with men still at large.

The danger of not taking firm measures to defeat the I.R.A. lies precisely in	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5588')
	The danger of not taking firm measures to defeat the I.R.A. lies precisely in

which obliged Stormont to resort to internment rather than trials.	('PREM_15_486', 'IMG_6389')
	This would in any case be politically unacceptable but even if it were not it would be open to all the difficulties about the intimidation of witnesses and reprisals etc. which obliged Stormont to resort to internment rather than trials.

The Home Secretary said that he thought that a ban on the 
Derry March on 12 August would not be politically acceptable unless it was part of a package which also included internment.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_224')
	The Home Secretary said that he thought that a ban on the 
Derry March on 12 August would not be politically acceptable unless it was part of a package which also included internment.

7. Regulation 11. This is chiefly used when a person is suspected of 
having committed an offence in the field of law and order but there is a brook in time between the alleged commission of the offence and the apprehension of the suspect.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1808')
	Regulation 11. This is chiefly used when a person is suspected of 
having committed an offence in the field of law and order but there is a brook in time between the alleged commission of the offence and the apprehension of the suspect.

Corrigan was responsible for various publications on behalf of Fianna Fail which had false imprints.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1926')
	idan Corrigan, also of St Patrick’s Academy, Dungannon, is associated with Fr Faul and also with the ALJ and the CSJ. Corrigan was responsible for various publications on behalf of Fianna Fail which had false imprints.

This would in any case be politically unacceptable but even if it were not it would be open to all the difficulties about the intimidation of witnesses and reprisals etc.	('PREM_15_486', 'IMG_6389')
	This would in any case be politically unacceptable but even if it were not it would be open to all the difficulties about the intimidation of witnesses and reprisals etc. which obliged Stormont to resort to internment rather than trials.

We must not flinch 
from this again.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_136')
	Michael McNair Wilson 
IRA to London. do so. 
If we do not protect 
It was insulting toour Servicemen to bring the Ulster loyalists 
will, Are we the Government of Northern Ireland or not? We have 
frittered our chances away and the Loyalists have no respect left for Westminster. We must restore law and order now. 
We must not flinch 
from this again.

then that warrant can be backed and executed by the police in Great Britain.	('PREM_15_1016', 'IMG_8589')
	In addition, I am advised that if a warrant of arrest has been 
issued for an offence in Northern Ireland against an individual who is in this country, including the offence under the Special Powers Act of being a member of the I.R.A., then that warrant can be backed and executed by the police in Great Britain.

WITH REGARD TO YOUR PARA.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_231')
	WITH REGARD TO YOUR PARA. 4 (V) THERE IS NO OBJECTION TO YOUR REFERRING TO PRESSURES, BUT YOU SHOULD STRESS THAT DECISION WOULD BE BASED ON SECURITY ASSESSMENT.

Once this was done, these matters As regards 
those who were now in detention, as the law and order situation returned to normal, release of detainees could go forward.	('PREM_15_1691', 'IMG_8880')
	Once this was done, these matters As regards 
those who were now in detention, as the law and order situation returned to normal, release of detainees could go forward.

AN ADVISORY COMMITTEE WILL BE SET UP, TO WHICH ANY ONE WHO IS INTERNED WILL HAVE THE RIGHT TO MAKE REPRESENTATIONS 9. I REGRET NO LESS THAN YOU THAT THESE NEW MEASURES HAVE BEEN FOUND NECESSARY.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_176')
	AN ADVISORY COMMITTEE WILL BE SET UP, TO WHICH ANY ONE WHO IS INTERNED WILL HAVE THE RIGHT TO MAKE REPRESENTATIONS 9. I REGRET NO LESS THAN YOU THAT THESE NEW MEASURES HAVE BEEN FOUND NECESSARY.

I think it will be obvious, from what I have said about the present state of operations, why I consider that internment is still vital.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6633')
	I think it will be obvious, from what I have said about the present state of operations, why I consider that internment is still vital.

This was something Ministers could and would defend.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1932')
	It was necessary that Detention Orders should.-be signed, and that people should be interrogated. This was something Ministers could and would defend.

declarations of their intention to continue and even escalate that campaign have made it impossible for him 
of that for the community would be worse than the consequences of what is now proposed.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_190')
	declarations of their intention to continue and even escalate that campaign have made it impossible for him

Though neutralisation of the IRA has not been completely achieved, vigorous and successful actions by the Security Forces have seriously reduced the IRA’s morale and made the most encouraging inroads into their command structure.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_155')
	Though neutralisation of the IRA has not been completely achieved, vigorous and successful actions by the Security Forces have seriously reduced the IRA’s morale and made the most encouraging inroads into their command structure.

The latest series of acts of terrorism by the I.R.A. and their recent	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2195')
	The latest series of acts of terrorism by the I.R.A.

2. 
parades are banned until further notice.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_204')
	es are banned until further notice. 
He will at the same time announce that all marches and

g r ounds i f , as one may hope, the impr oved situation both 
reduced the risk involved in setting free some of the internees, and increased the Availability of evidence on which others among them could be convicted.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6574')
	g r ounds i f , as one may hope, the impr oved situation both 
reduced the risk involved in setting free some of the internees, and increased the Availability of evidence on which others among them could be convicted.

However reluctant we may be to adopt internment, we must not leave it too late and expose ourselves to the charge that it might have made all the difference (to the lives of British soldiers, among other things) if only we had introduced it in time.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_238')
	However reluctant we may be to adopt internment, we must not leave it too late and expose ourselves to the charge that it might have made all the difference (to the lives of British soldiers, among other things) if only we had introduced it in time.

Internment involves the Catholic community only to the extent that 
some, I say some, member of that community have become involved in I.R.A.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5590')
	Internment involves the Catholic community only to the extent that 
some, I say some, member of that community have become involved in I.R.A. activity.

’’YOU MAY ASK WHY IT IS, AS SO MANY OF THE IRA LEADERS ARE REMOVED FROM THE SCENE, THAT THE CAMPAIGN CONTINUES?	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6926')
	YOU MAY ASK WHY IT IS, AS SO MANY OF THE IRA LEADERS ARE REMOVED FROM THE SCENE, THAT THE CAMPAIGN CONTINUES? IT CCNTINUES - 
I BELIEVE - BECAUSE OF IRRESPONSIBLE SPECULATION, 
WHICH ENCOURAGES AMONGST THE DIMINISHING RANKS OF THE TERRORISTS THE IDEA THAT THEY ONLY HAVE TO KEEP IT UP A LITTLE LONGER AND RESISTANCE TO THEIR EFFORTS WILL CRUMBLE:- THAT THE INTERNEES WILL BE RELEASED: THAT STORMONT WILL BE ABOLISHED: THAT A UNITED IRELAND, ENGINEERED BY THEM AND DOMINATED BY THEM, WILL BE JUST AROUND THE CORNER.

the prime targets for retaliatory action would undoubtedly be the members of the Special Branch of the RUC: these are for the most part known to those internees whom they have arrested or interrogated.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6958')
	If internees were released prematurely, ie before the IRA were defeated, the prime targets for retaliatory action would undoubtedly be the members of the Special Branch of the RUC: these are for the most part known to those internees whom they have arrested or interrogated.

ugit not to batten Onto that k ndof itteewich I appointe4. 
Theo n are intexne in severalcentres and of cure peaPgle Y-Z0104	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5240')
	Theo n are intexne in severalcentres and of cure peaPgle

6. I think this is fair enough and is in fact quite useful since it covers 
the point the Secretary of State has made that he would be prepared to consider signing interim custody orders against any Protestants who were arrested on the basis of their possible implication in murder but against whom it was not possible to prefer charges. 
J T A Howard-Drake 14th December 1972	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1805')
	I think this is fair enough and is in fact quite useful since it covers 
the point the Secretary of State has made that he would be prepared to consider signing interim custody orders against any Protestants who were arrested on the basis of their possible implication in murder but against whom it was not possible to prefer charges.

TO COMMIT CRIMINAL OFFENCES.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7675')
	AS TO THE SUBSTANCE OF THE POINTS WHICH HAVE BEEN RAISED, THE SECRETARY OF STATE WOULD FIND NO DIFFICULTY IN SAYING THAT IF THERE WERE A CEASEFIRE, THERE WILL NOT BE A MAJOR LIFT,NOR, INDEED, IS ANYBODY LIKELY TO BE ARRESTED UNLESS THEY CONTINUE 
(HIS WORD) TO APPROACH ANY MEMBER OF THE GOVERNMENT. 
TO COMMIT CRIMINAL OFFENCES.

Where 
the Advisory Committee have been satisfied that an internee does not fall into this category they have so recommended and that man has been released.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4973')
	This is perhaps a suggestion that people are interned because of their political views. The Prime Minister has publicly stated and repeated that persons are interned solely because they are deemed to be members of, or actively associated with, subversive organisations. 
Where 
the Advisory Committee have been satisfied that an internee does not fall into this category they have so recommended and that man has been released.

Play down the prospect of further internment.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5707')
	Play down the prospect of further internment. (In this connection I 
have told Sir Harold Black that, while we are not asking the Government of Northern Ireland to stop pulling people in, they should keep very quiet about the existence of a further list with as many as 200 names on it. 
Typically, 
he did not even know that the list existed!).

The more quickly terrorist activity by the IRA subsides, the more rapid will be the pace of release; but any increase in IRA activity will delay the process.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7214')
	The more quickly terrorist activity by the IRA subsides, the more rapid will be the pace of release; but any increase in IRA activity will delay the process.

Lastly, while the processes in connection with internment should be seen to be working speedily and justly, an effort should be made to shorten the interval between the arrest and trial of persons charged with criminal offences in connection with public security. If the public could see that malefactors arrested by the security forces were brought swiftly to justice	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6174')
	Lastly, while the processes in connection with internment should be seen to be working speedily and justly, an effort should be made to shorten the interval between the arrest and trial of persons charged with criminal offences in connection with public security. If the public could see that malefactors arrested by the security forces were brought swiftly to justice

LEGAL MATTERS 4. 
It has been confirmed that there is no objection to charges being brought 
of membership of the IRA, being an unlawful association under the Special Powers Act.	('DEFE_13_1358', 'IMG_9853')
	It has been confirmed that there is no objection to charges being brought 
of membership of the IRA, being an unlawful association under the Special Powers Act. When there is evidence, arrests can therefore be made with a view to charges being brought.

8. WE HAVE HOWEVER MADE CLEAR OUR VIEW THAT THE MEASURES TAKEN SHOULD NOT DISCRIMINATE AS BETWEEN THE DIFFERENT SECTIONS OF THE COMMUNITY, EXCEPT AS THE FACTS OF THE SITUATION MAKE INEVITABLE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_176')
	WE HAVE HOWEVER MADE CLEAR OUR VIEW THAT THE MEASURES TAKEN SHOULD NOT DISCRIMINATE AS BETWEEN THE DIFFERENT SECTIONS OF THE COMMUNITY, EXCEPT AS THE FACTS OF THE SITUATION MAKE INEVITABLE.

’’CF CCUFE VE FsE THAT IVTEF.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6925')
	F CCUFE VE FsE THAT IVTEF.NMENT, ETRIKiNG AS IT CID AT THE PEAF:T CF THE TEf.CFIET ChGANISATICNS, VCULC PRCVCKE FRCM THEN; A’ EYTEEE AN’D CALLCUS CCU TER-FEACTICN

To: (Name) (Appointment) 
I (Name) (Appointment), an officer of the Royal Ulster Costabulary, hereby authorize you, for the preservation of peace and the maintenance of order, to arrest without warrant those named (below)(in the attached schedule) and to detain them for a period of not more than 48 hours for the purpose of interrogation at a suitable Police Office.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2182')
	I (Name) (Appointment), an officer of the Royal Ulster Costabulary, hereby authorize you, for the preservation of peace and the maintenance of order, to arrest without warrant those named (below)(in the attached schedule) and to detain them for a period of not more than 48 hours for the purpose of interrogation at a suitable Police Office.

3. When arresting a person under this order the soldier making the 
arrest is to say "I am arresting you under the powers conferred by the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act(orthern Irelad) 1922". If the person arrested questions the authority for the arrest eg by asking what offence he has committed or under what Regulation he is arrested the soldier making the arrest is to.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2183')
	When arresting a person under this order the soldier making the 
arrest is to say "I am arresting you under the powers conferred by the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act(orthern Irelad) 1922". If the person arrested questions the authority for the arrest eg by asking what offence he has committed or under what Regulation he is arrested the soldier making the arrest is to. say "I am not required to give any further explanation. 
I warn you that if you resist arrest you may be 
committing an offence".

The answer was that there were reports of varying reliability that up to 25 (of 380 or so who had been released by them) had returned to more or less active membership of the IRA - 
which did not 
necessarily mean that they had themselves become active terrorists again.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7704')
	The answer was that there were reports of varying reliability that up to 25 (of 380 or so who had been released by them) had returned to more or less active membership of the IRA - 
which did not 
necessarily mean that they had themselves become active terrorists again. This is obviously a very much smaller proportion than the one-quarter alleged by the Daily Express.

No bail shall be allowed on any of these charges unless there are special humanitarian reasons.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6754')
	Recognizing the political impasse, and feeling of community 
alienation, resulting from internment, but also recogizing that the needs of justice demand that witnesses and jurors should be free from physical fear we recommend the follwing:- 
That a Special Court should be set up to try offences under the undermentioned Acts: (i) Explosive substances Act 1893 S2,3,4, & 5. (11) Firearms Act (N.I.) 1969 S14,15,16,18 18(1), 19. (111) Explosive substances Act 1875 S4, & 5. (lv) Protection of Persons and Property Act (N.I.) 1969 S1,2,3. (v) 
Public Order (Amendment) Act (N.I.) S7.8.(if on indictment) Any person charged under the above provisions shall be tried at the 
Special Court. No bail shall be allowed on any of these charges unless there are special humanitarian reasons.

REGIONAL HOLDING CENTRES AND MAIDSTONE 
Operation of Regional Holding Centres 1. 
with the Status of a "Police Office" The RUC may establish at MAGILIIGAN and BAILYKINLER centres for 
holding and interrogatting persons arrested under the Special Powers Act.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2179')
	The RUC may establish at MAGILIIGAN and BAILYKINLER centres for 
holding and interrogatting persons arrested under the Special Powers Act.

Equally, I cannot now allow the prospect of any misrepresentation to deflect me from my duty to act.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_51')
	At all times I have consistently emphasized that it was not a step towards which I would be moved by any political clamour. Equally, I cannot now allow the prospect of any misrepresentation to deflect me from my duty to act.

(III) POINT B. MY GUESS ON THE LIKELY REPLY IS THAT HE IS INDEED THINKING ABOUT INTERNMENT; THAT INTERNMENT IN THE NORTH WOULD HAVE OBVIOUS REPERCUSSIONS IN THE SOUTH BUT THAT HE WILL HAVE TO WAIT TO SEE WHAT THESE ARE BEFORE TAKING A DECISION (IV) POINT D. COULD I BE GIVEN A GENUINE BUT ANODYNE MESSAGE TO CONVEY?	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2207')
	MY GUESS ON THE LIKELY REPLY IS THAT HE IS INDEED THINKING ABOUT INTERNMENT; THAT INTERNMENT IN THE NORTH WOULD HAVE OBVIOUS REPERCUSSIONS IN THE SOUTH BUT THAT HE WILL HAVE TO WAIT TO SEE WHAT THESE ARE BEFORE TAKING A DECISION

Each case will have to be reviewed and the time 
that that takes may provide the spacing necessary.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7250')
	Each case will have to be reviewed and the time 
that that takes may provide the spacing necessary.

"Arrest policy after the ceasefire should be as follows: 
(i) In respect of offences under the criminal law, including specific offences under the Special Powers Act and regulations made thereunder, where the offence is alleged to have been committed after these instructions take effect, the due processes of the law will apply, including those under the Special Powers Act.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1882')
	In respect of offences under the criminal law, including specific offences under the Special Powers Act and regulations made thereunder, where the offence is alleged to have been committed after these instructions take effect, the due processes of the law will apply, including those under the Special Powers Act.

I HAVE HOWEVER SENT A 
MESSAGE TO LYNCH, ASKING HIM TO REACT WITH UNDERSTANDING EVEN IF WITH REGRET TO MAINTAIN THE PRESSURES HE HAS DISCREETLY BEEN EXERTING ON THE IRA SOUTH OF THE BORDER, AND EMPHASISING THAT WE HOPE THAT THESE MEASURES CAN BE STRICTLY TEMPORARY AND WILL NOT PREJUDICE CONTINUING PROGRESS IN THE TASK OF MAKING PROGRESS WITH BUILDING MORE HARMONIOUS INTER-COMMUNITY RELATIONS IN NORTHERN IRELAND.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_196')
	WE HOPE THAT THESE MEASURES CAN BE STRICTLY TEMPORARY AND WILL NOT PREJUDICE CONTINUING PROGRESS IN THE TASK OF MAKING PROGRESS WITH BUILDING MORE HARMONIOUS INTER-COMMUNITY RELATIONS IN NORTHERN IRELAND.

Internment was producing information so rapidly that accommodation was becoming crowded.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6261')
	Internment was producing information so rapidly that accommodation was becoming crowded.

erppthe 
e4nlete fi as for those arrnted in Northern pel Powrs Aots are as follows. They are 
RleyAed tt hout detention order Rlaased after detentioni order 
Ra1ºsed after considerntion by Advisory ComIttee Rloaod 
-lfro interinmet on P900mmOndntion of ’"0 
Hold under Regulation 10 Held under detention order Interned 
Thr latest figurs for the Judee Brown kdvisory Committee 
as at 12 Janunry are:Cases reviewed 
thuber who refsed to appear before the Committee 
Not recommended for release Recommended for release Released 
Refused to take oath and consequently still interned 
Recommendations still with the Kinistry of Home Affairs Cases adjourned	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6721')
	e1aNd !`erppthe 
e4nlete fi as for those arrnted in Northern pel Powrs Aots are as follows. They are 
RleyAed tt hout detention order Rlaased after detentioni order 
Ra1ºsed after considerntion by Advisory ComIttee Rloaod 
-lfro interinmet on P900mmOndntion of ’"0 
Hold under Regulation 10 Held under detention order Interned 
Thr latest figurs for the Judee Brown kdvisory Committee 
as at 12 Janunry are:Cases reviewed 
thuber who refsed to appear before the Committee 
Not recommended for release Recommended for release Released 
Refused to take oath and consequently still interned 
Recommendations still with the Kinistry of Home Affairs Cases adjourned

Detention of Terrorists Order (if completed in the Commons). 2nd Reading of Financial Provisions Bill.	('PREM_15_1015', 'IMG_8365')
	Detention of Terrorists Order (if completed in the Commons).

When in use it applies only to the situation in which the RUC wish to interrogate a person and are using troops as their agents to effect the arrest.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1807')
	When in use it applies only to the situation in which the RUC wish to interrogate a person and are using troops as their agents to effect the arrest.

WHAT WE NOW FACE IS ARMED ATTACKS BY THE IRA.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_166')
	THE SECTARIAN RIOTING OF 1969 IS NOW LONG PAST. WHAT WE NOW FACE IS ARMED ATTACKS BY THE IRA.

62 CEF(C) 523 STRE(C) 325 
Q(Maint) 4 4 27 (Air) 
D ArcW (DIE) a gr3A 
agr 1A (Secrett,*t) 
that the justification, finance and time frame aust be covered in it.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2238')
	that the justification, finance and time frame aust be covered in it.

But an arrest under e) by a member of HM Forces acting without the express authority of an RUC officer should only be made if he suspects the person concerned of having committed acts, or being about to commit acts, prejudicial to the preservation of the peace or the maintenance of order.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_1973')
	But an arrest under e) by a member of HM Forces acting without the express authority of an RUC officer should only be made if he suspects the person concerned of having committed acts, or being about to commit acts, prejudicial to the preservation of the peace or the maintenance of order.

In principle there is nothing new in this, since the Secretary of State has always said that he would be prepared to detain some Protestant extremists if a proper case were made out.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1800')
	In principle there is nothing new in this, since the Secretary of State has always said that he would be prepared to detain some Protestant extremists if a proper case were made out.

General Tuzo’s 
view was that it would be better to try the scheme he had described before resorting to internment.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2221')
	General Tuzo’s 
view was that it would be better to try the scheme he had described before resorting to internment

4. 
I have therefore decided, after weighing all the relevant 
considerations, including the views of the security authorities and after consultation with HMG in the UK last Thursday, to exercise where necessary the powers of detention and internment vested in me as minister of Home Affairs.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_50')
	I have therefore decided, after weighing all the relevant 
considerations, including the views of the security authorities and after consultation with HMG in the UK last Thursday, to exercise where necessary the powers of detention and internment vested in me as minister of Home Affairs.

even though there is no evidence to justify criminal proceedings;	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1759')
	anyone known to be in the 
most senior ranks of the 
Provisional IRA, even though there is no evidence to justify criminal proceedings;

The marches due in Derry 
on 12 August and in Belfast at the end of the month will not take place.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_206')
	The marches due in Derry 
on 12 August and in Belfast at the end of the month will not take place.

Conclusion 9. 
These considerations suggest that an Indemnity Bill should not be 
introduced unless a pressing need arises on security or other policy grounds.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7701')
	These considerations suggest that an Indemnity Bill should not be 
introduced unless a pressing need arises on security or other policy grounds.

The news was fairly widely welcomed although the Social Democratic and Labour Party MP, Mr. Paddy Devlin, stated that: "it must be a serious inquiry, held immediately and controlled by a competent jury". Mr. Joe Burns, the right wing Unionist and Junior Government Minister, on the other hand, thought such an inquiry unnecessary.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5837')
	Mr. Joe Burns, the right wing Unionist and Junior Government Minister, on the other hand, thought such an inquiry unnecessary.

3. 
Regulation 11 Regulation 11 enables three categories of persons to mak 
an arrest without warrant in certain circumstances - general 
suspicious circumstances.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2174')
	Regulation 11 enables three categories of persons to mak 
an arrest without warrant in certain circumstances - general 
suspicious circumstances. The three categories of persons are (l) any police constable; (2) any soldier on duty; and (3) any person authorised for the purpose by the Minister of Home Affairs. This Regulation differs from Regulation 10 in that the person arresting must suspect the person arrested of

Phase 2. (Immediate Action on Violence Erupting). (a) 
searches on goad intelligence.	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1476')
	searches on goad intelligence.

Northern Ireland Counter Proposals The Stormont system would remain, subject to the 
following adjustments:(i) Internment.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7226')
	Internment. 
It is agreed that a beginning 
should be made with a phasing out of internment, which would continue subject to a satisfactory diminution of violence.

in the cases of spies); and a wholly separate administrative procedure whereby, on the authority of a Minister, persons suspected of disaffection were detained under Regulation 18B.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_8006')
	The Attorney minutes that even in 1940 in the 
United Kingdom there were courts (admittely sitting in camera) which administered the criminal law (e.g., in the cases of spies); and a wholly separate administrative procedure whereby, on the authority of a Minister, persons suspected of disaffection were detained under Regulation 18B.

MINISTERIAL COMMITTEE ON NORTHERN IRELAND INTERNMENT 
Memorandum by the Secretary of State for the Home Department and the Secretary of State for Defence Regulation 12 made under the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Acts 
(Northern Ireland) 1922-43 confers on the Northern Ireland Government the power to intern without trial.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2298')
	Regulation 12 made under the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Acts 
(Northern Ireland) 1922-43 confers on the Northern Ireland Government the power to intern without trial.

ON SECURITY POLICY 
HM Government it clear, on assuming direct responsibility for the government of Northern Ireland, t hat it was their objective to bring internment under the Special Powers Act to as soon as the security situation permitted; and to 
consider how far the powers conferred under that Act could be dispensed with.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8052')
	HM Government it clear, on assuming direct responsibility for the government of Northern Ireland, t hat it was their objective to bring internment under the Special Powers Act to as soon as the security situation permitted; and to 
consider how far the powers conferred under that Act could be dispensed with.

d. 
Provisional IRA volunteers, who, on the strength of reliable 
intelligence, are known to be an exceptionally serious threat to security.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1802')
	Provisional IRA volunteers, who, on the strength of reliable 
intelligence, are known to be an exceptionally serious threat to security.

THIS WOULD IN ANY CASE BE POLITICALLY UNACCEPTABLE BUT EVEN IF IT WERE NOT IT WOULD BE OPEN TO ALL THE DIFFICULTIES ABOUT THE INTIMIDATION OF WITNESSES AND REPRISALS ETC.	('PREM_15_486', 'IMG_6385')
	THIS WOULD IN ANY CASE BE POLITICALLY UNACCEPTABLE BUT EVEN IF IT WERE NOT IT WOULD BE OPEN TO ALL THE DIFFICULTIES ABOUT THE INTIMIDATION OF WITNESSES AND REPRISALS ETC. WHICH OBLIGED STORMONT TO RESORT TO INTERNMENT RATHER THAN TRIALS.

2. 
They will at the same time announce that all marche 
and parades.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2195')
	They will at the same time announce that all marche 
and parades. are banned until further notice.

dfet - ad snite to defeat - those violent non who seek 
to is’vde r... 21rmaction on security lo not a substitute for cemetructive tae 
nor 18 it a vitch of policy: It is 
prwai1 over the rule of force.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2166')
	dfet - ad snite to defeat - those violent non who seek 
to is’vde r... 21rmaction on security lo not a substitute for cemetructive tae 
nor 18 it a vitch of policy: It is 
prwai1 over the rule of force.

Complaints of Ill-treatment 
THE PRIME MINISTER said that, if support for the policies of the 2 Governments over internment was to be sustained in Great Britain, it was necessary to find a means to refute mischievous suggestions of deliberate brutality on the part of the security forces.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5872')
	THE PRIME MINISTER said that, if support for the policies of the 2 Governments over internment was to be sustained in Great Britain, it was necessary to find a means to refute mischievous suggestions of deliberate brutality on the part of the security forces.

1. If Northern Ireland is to survive and prosper, two things 
are essential.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_50')
	If Northern Ireland is to survive and prosper, two things 
are essential. We must sustain a continuing programme of economic and social development, and we must find the means to create a more united society here 
- one in which all men of good will, hoever divergent their legitimate political views, 
may participate to the full. These things are, and will continue to be, the aims of our policy.

Intelligence is the key to successful operations against 
terrorists, and the key to intelligence is information regarding their operations, their dispositions and their plans.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5164')
	Intelligence is the key to successful operations against 
terrorists, and the key to intelligence is information regarding their operations, their dispositions and their plans.

and will not prejudice continuing progress in the task of making progress with building more harmonious intercommunity relations in Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_207')
	and will not prejudice continuing progress in the task of making progress with building more harmonious intercommunity relations in Northern Ireland.

(5) Direct rule Each would be accompanied by announcement 
of early release of low-risk internees and of progress in further releases dependent on de-escalation of violence.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7237')
	Each would be accompanied by announcement 
of early release of low-risk internees and of progress in further releases dependent on de-escalation of violence.

The pace of releases will depend on the state of public security and the effect upon it of the release of particular internees whose cases are under review.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7214')
	The pace of releases will depend on the state of public security and the effect upon it of the release of particular internees whose cases are under review.

6. 
UNDER WHI H THESE MEASURES ARE TAKEN ARE POWERS OF THE NORTHERN IRELAND GOVERNMENT.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_196')
	UNDER WHI H THESE MEASURES ARE TAKEN ARE POWERS OF THE NORTHERN IRELAND GOVERNMENT. 
THE DECISION IS OF COURSE FAULKNERS, SINCE THE POWERS

3. 
The "Como ’Of’fice’ thomsolves havoc no authority to finanoo any 
priSaon accommodation outoido Great" Britian; and tho D of .E could not Fact an agents for them, or for ayothe boywtotteebi 
(1) GEN 47(71); ist Mig Conclusion (2)	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2262')
	Como ’Of’fice’ thomsolves havoc no authority to finanoo any 
priSaon accommodation outoido Great" Britian; and tho D of .E could not Fact an agents for them, or for ayothe boywtotteebi 
(1) GEN 47(71); ist Mig Conclusion (2)

$*d, 
It is considered, therefore that $ pp1 Ws stmwU ##s 4 s a. 
Prevent cts of violones t7y protestant t ot (1) (2) Increasing the cover on genuitivego A 
interfaces.	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1506')
	It is considered, therefore that $ pp1 Ws stmwU ##s 4

Aidan Corrigan, also of St Patrick’s Academy, Dungannon, is associated with Fr Faul and also with the ALJ and the CSJ.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1926')
	idan Corrigan, also of St Patrick’s Academy, Dungannon, is associated with Fr Faul and also with the ALJ and the CSJ. Corrigan was responsible for various publications on behalf of Fianna Fail which had false imprints.

If this move enables us to reduce the number of troops committed to Northern Ireland earlier than we could otherwise have done, that will be a welcome consequence of it. 
But 
we have made it clear to Faulkner that there could be no question of our accepting internment, and instructing our	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_205')
	If this move enables us to reduce the number of troops committed to Northern Ireland earlier than we could otherwise have done, that will be a welcome consequence of it. 
But 
we have made it clear to Faulkner that there could be no question of our accepting internment, and instructing our

But, if so, it will be necessary to find room for the necessary legislation; and some other item in the legislative programme may have to be sacrificed.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8109')
	But, if so, it will be necessary to find room for the necessary legislation; and some other item in the legislative programme may have to be sacrificed.

5. WHEN FAULKNER CAME TO LONDON LAST WEEK, HE TOLD US THAT HE HAD COME TO THE CONCLUSION THAT INTERNMENT WAS NOW THE RIGHT AND INDEED INEVITABLE COURSE. THE LATEST SERIES OF ACTS OF TERRORISM BY THE IRA AND THEIR RECENT DECLARATIONS OF THEIR INTENTION TO CONTINUE AND EVEN ESCALATE THAT CAMPAIGN HAVE MADE IT ESSENTIAL TO TAKE THIS ACTION HOWEVER ABHORRENT, IN ORDER TO PREVENT /THE	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_179')
	WHEN FAULKNER CAME TO LONDON LAST WEEK, HE TOLD US THAT HE HAD COME TO THE CONCLUSION THAT INTERNMENT WAS NOW THE RIGHT AND INDEED INEVITABLE COURSE. THE LATEST SERIES OF ACTS OF TERRORISM BY THE IRA AND THEIR RECENT DECLARATIONS OF THEIR INTENTION TO CONTINUE AND EVEN ESCALATE THAT CAMPAIGN HAVE MADE IT ESSENTIAL TO TAKE THIS ACTION HOWEVER ABHORRENT, IN ORDER TO PREVENT

6. 
That is his judgment of the situation, and of 
course the decision is his, though he has reached it after consultation with us.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2193')
	That is his judgment of the situation, and of 
course the decision is his, though he has reached it after consultation with us.

There was a sound practical 
reason for this consultation: it would not be possible for the Northern Ireland Government to hold internees without the help of the British Government.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4847')
	it would not be possible for the Northern Ireland Government to hold internees without the help of the British Government.

The Prime Minister noted that in pargraph 3 of 
I am sending copies of this letter to Angel (H Office) and Norbury Cabinet Office). 
The Prime Minister considers that it was entirely the Army 
R.J. Andrew, Esq.,	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6743')
	The Prime Minister noted that in pargraph 3 o

THE MINSTER OF FINANCE REPEATED THIS TO ME LAST SATURDAY, AND ADDED THAT INTERNMENT WAS NOT REPEAT NOT EXCLUDED.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2207')
	WE KNOW THAT THE IRISH GOVERNMENT HAVE DECIDED ON A TOUGH LINE AGAINST BOTH I R A FACTIONS, AND EVEN IF CONVICTIONS ARE NOT OBTAINED IN COURTS THEY WILL HARASS THEM BY ADMINISTRATIVE 
ACTION. THE MINSTER OF FINANCE REPEATED THIS TO ME LAST SATURDAY, AND ADDED THAT INTERNMENT WAS NOT REPEAT NOT EXCLUDED.

reception centre, refractory cell block - could be given For the most rapid completion, quickly assembled material would 
have to be used and military manpower employed for most of the construction.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2272')
	It could be built in such a way that the external signs of its use as an internment camp 
- for example, guard towers and corrugated iron fencing - could be left for erection only when this 
use was intended; and that the internal facilities required in this event 
an alternative legitimate designation. 4. 
- e.g. reception centre, refractory cell block - could be given

The attached document records Unless this or some other more 
acceptable but equally effective device can be found, I am bound to say that I see no way of avoiding the problem of internment, and I am bound to add that our efforts to apprehend the terrorists will remain handicapped as they are now.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7784')
	nless this or some other more 
acceptable but equally effective device can be found, I am bound to say that I see no way of avoiding the problem of internment, and I am bound to add that our efforts to apprehend the terrorists will remain handicapped as they are now.

We have borne in mind the need to define a clear political objective, and to link military operations with a political initiative directed towards that objective. 
If the course of action contemplated did not achieve this result, the imposition of a political settlement It would be directed as necessary	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_6')
	We have borne in mind the need to define a clear political objective, and to link military operations with a political initiative directed towards that objective. 
If the course of action contemplated did not achieve this result, the imposition of a political settlement It would be directed as necessary

(4) 
Details of morale, operational directives, propaganda techniques, relations with other organisations and future plans.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5003')
	Details of morale, operational directives, propaganda techniques, relations with other organisations and future plans. 
(5) 
The discovery of individual responsibility for about 85 incidents recorded on police files which had previously remained unexplained. 
21 It is also not without significance that the rate at which arms, 
ammunition and explosives discovered in Northern Ireland by the Security Forces increased markedly after 9 August, and much the greater part of the haul has resulted either directly or indirectly from information obtained by interrogation in depth.

We took note then my Lords of the effect which internment had already begun to have, in denying to dangerous men the freedom of movement which they had previously enjoyed, and in greatly increasing the flow of intelligence about further terrorists and their activities.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6609')
	We took note then my Lords of the effect which internment had already begun to have, in denying to dangerous men the freedom of movement which they had previously enjoyed, and in greatly increasing the flow of intelligence about further terrorists and their activities.

are in sympathy with its aims.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5588')
	We are at present engaged in a deadly struggle against an armed 
conspiracy whose immediate purpose it is to destroy the peace, stability and security of this part of the United Kingdom. 
I say the immediate purpose. The ultimate purpose is the overthrow by violence the clear and 
democratically expressed wish of the majority of the people of Northern Ireland to remain part of the United Kingdom. 
Neither the I.R.A., nor 
indeed any other organisation, will be allowed to achieve this by force of arms, though the present campaign of violence may have gained the support of some, who while professing to deplore the methods of the I.R.A., are in sympathy with its aims.

The S of S for Northern 
Ireland is establishing immediately a procedure to review each case personally.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7253')
	The S of S for Northern 
Ireland is establishing immediately a procedure to review each case personally.

On the other hand, what will be the reaction of "Loyalists" to the release of detainees on what will be said to be mere legal technicalities, comparable to those on which known terrorists have repeatedly been discharged in the Republic? 
Nevertheless, the meeting may In particular it is becoming increasingly urgent	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7694')
	On the other hand, what will be the reaction of "Loyalists" to the release of detainees on what will be said to be mere legal technicalities, comparable to those on which known terrorists have repeatedly been discharged in the Republic?

He had discussed the situation with General Tuzo but did not see any other acceptable major initiative.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2220')
	he thought the time had come unless some other ne measure could be suggested. He had discussed the situation with General Tuzo but did not see any other acceptable major initiative.

I have exercised powers of internment with the greatest possible 
reluctance, a reluctance shared by all my colleagues as well as by Her Majesty’s Government in London.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5589')
	I have exercised powers of internment with the greatest possible 
reluctance, a reluctance shared by all my colleagues as well as by Her Majesty’s Government in London.

Why then should the same processes of law not have their way with 
members of the I.R.A.?	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5590')
	Why then should the same processes of law not have their way with 
members of the I.R.A.? In many cases, of course, the law has caught up 
with them and about 40 members of the organisation are at present serving prison sentences, but they represent only a small proportion of membership and further steps had to be taken.

The Northern Ireland Government have made practically no headway so far in sorting the internees physically into categories 
- for which they are apparently 
now laying the blame on the shortage of accommodation which has obtained hitherto.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6716')
	The Northern Ireland Government have made practically no headway so far in sorting the internees physically into categories 
- for which they are apparently 
now laying the blame on the shortage of accommodation which has obtained hitherto.

PLEASE ADD TO PARA 3. THERE WAS SOME DISCUSSION OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH THE 
NORTHERN IRELAND GOVT.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4827')
	THERE WAS SOME DISCUSSION OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH THE 
NORTHERN IRELAND GOVT. MIGHT BE FORCED TO RESORT TO INTERNMENT AND THE PRIME MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND SAID AGAIN THAT THERE WOULD BE, IN ANY EVENT, PRIOR CONSULTATION WITH US

legally-qualified commissioner;	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9321')
	no-one may be detained for more than 28 days without his case being referred for adjudication to an independent, legally-qualified commissioner

in Wootmintor, both in the guise of the short torm solution (Maidatono) and the long term (Long Koh) is a poorful-.means o ensuring that th oWetminator Govrnmont retains a major role, if not ind4o a predominat rolo, in taking such a docilon 7. In -a .	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2263')
	In -a .direct rule situation - and this is perhaps thd moot likely situation in which internment miDet be seen to be required - the deoision to intern would lie with tho Westminter Government alone,

YOU SHOULD KNOW THAT THE PRINCIPLE OF EQUALITY OF TREATMENT FOR EVERYONE IN NORTHERN IRELAND IRRESPECTIVE OF POLITICAL VIEWS OR RELIGION IS THE ACCEPTED POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM AND OF NORTHERN IRELAND AND IS BEING FULLY IMPLEMENTED.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5860')
	YOU SHOULD KNOW THAT THE PRINCIPLE OF EQUALITY OF TREATMENT FOR EVERYONE IN NORTHERN IRELAND IRRESPECTIVE OF POLITICAL VIEWS OR RELIGION IS THE ACCEPTED POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM AND OF NORTHERN IRELAND AND IS BEING FULLY IMPLEMENTED.

2. CHARGE OF MURDER.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5687')
	CHARGE OF MURDER. LIST OF THOSE WANTED FOR INTER KENT. 
A WARRANT HAS BEEN ’ISSUE FOR GALLAGHER’S ARREST ON A HE IS A NATIVE OF STRABANE AND WAS ON THE THIS IS A CASE IN WHICH 
THE EVIDENCE COULD CERTAINLY B EXPECTED TO STAND UP IN AN IMPARTIAL COURT OF LAW.

We therefore call upon all the parties involved to abstain from provocation, whether by word or deed, while the Home Secretary’s discussions are in progress; and we have undertaken, each for his own Government, that in implementing our respective policies in relation to Northern Ireland we will intensify our efforts to restrain illegal violence, to uphold law and order and to protect human life and dignity.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5729')
	We therefore call upon all the parties involved to abstain from provocation, whether by word or deed, while the Home Secretary’s discussions are in progress; and we have undertaken, each for his own Government, that in implementing our respective policies in relation to Northern Ireland we will intensify our efforts to restrain illegal violence, to uphold law and order and to protect human life and dignity

the British Government would regard themselves as having been consulted by the Government of Northern Ireland and would be ready to acquiesce in this decision and to give the security forces the necessary instructions.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_211')
	THE PRIME MINISTER said that, after discussing with his colleagues the representations which Mr Faulkner had made at their meeting earlier in the afternoon, he had reached the conclusion that, if the position could be correctly described by saying that Mr Faulkner now wished to adopt a policy of internment and to invoke the statutory powers available to him for this purpose, the British Government would regard themselves as having been consulted by the Government of Northern Ireland and would be ready to acquiesce in this decision and to give the security forces the necessary instructions.

Where a person is searched and a weapon is found upon him the words could be "I am arresting you for the unlawful possession of a firearm". 
Planned Arrests 4. 
These are normally made under the SPA powers.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1807')
	Planned Arrests 4. 
These are normally made under the SPA powers. The degree of planning 
can vary between may days and a few minutes but it is most important that the formula on the Blue Card is used in every case

17th February, 1965 CABINET JOINT INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE 
JOINT DIRECTIVE ON MILITARY INTERROGATION IN INTERNAL SECURITY OPERATIONS OVERSEAS 
Report by the Joint Intelligence Committee INTRODUCTION 
Persons arrested or detained during Internal Security 
operations or in near emergency situations are likely to be valuable sources of intelligence.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5176')
	Persons arrested or detained during Internal Security 
operations or in near emergency situations are likely to be valuable sources of intelligence. They may be the only sources of intelligence at a time when it is urgently required.

A LIST OF DETAINEES IS LIKELY TO BE PUBLISHED VERY SHORTLY, BUT SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS FORBID THE PUBLICATION OF MUCH SUPPORTING DETAIL, FOR SOURCE PROTECTION REASONS.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5847')
	A LIST OF DETAINEES IS LIKELY TO BE PUBLISHED VERY SHORTLY, BUT SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS FORBID THE PUBLICATION OF MUCH SUPPORTING DETAIL, FOR SOURCE PROTECTION REASONS.

by British troops;	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2256')
	(a) to authenticate the cover story, it is essential that the camp should be seen to be performing its secondary role; it will therefore need to be occupied, as much as possible, by British troops;

in consultation with the Chief 
Constable be instructed to Prepare and submit detailed plans for the apsehension of internees, indioatag the principles on which th existing lists have been prepared. 
lath Imm 2472-	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2300')
	Prepare and submit detailed plans for the apsehension of internees, indioatag the principles on which th existing lists have been prepared.

A VICTORY FOR THE IRA 2. 
The IRA have demanded: the withdrawal of the Army from the streets; the abolition of Stormont; an amnesty; 
The army will not be withdrawan from the streets until their presence is no longer necessary; Stormont is not being abolished 
- the Parliament simply stands 
prorogued; We aim to reduce the level of internment but there is no question of an amnesty for those who have been convicted of offences of violence.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7162')
	e aim to reduce the level of internment but there is no question of an amnesty for those who have been convicted of offences of violence.

The consequent effect on the political and security situation would be most damaging, notwithstanding the statements made by Mr Lynch about his willingness to use similar powers in the south if necessary.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4854')
	The consequent effect on the political and security situation would be most damaging, notwithstanding the statements made by Mr Lynch about his willingness to use similar powers in the south if necessary.

22nd July, 1971. 
acting or having acted, etc.,	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2175')
	acting or having acted, etc., in a manner prejudicial to the peace or where a document, etc., is found in hi possession.

6. That was the main point, and indeed O’Sullivan came back several 
times to the possibility of internment in the South.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6566')
	That was the main point, and indeed O’Sullivan came back several 
times to the possibility of internment in the South

He would consider further, in the light of the security situation, what the SDLP had said.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7951')
	A statement would be released to the press explaining that the action had been taken in the light of the new situation in which the security forces were dominating the areas where the IRA had operated in the past. He would consider further, in the light of the security situation, what the SDLP had said.

When there is evidence, arrests can therefore be made with a view to charges being brought.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7842')
	It has been confirmed that there is no objection to charges being brought 
of membership of the IRA, being an unlawful association under the Special Powers Act. When there is evidence, arrests can therefore be made with a view to charges being brought.

0 
i It 
10 
10. hen a person is arrested under VA poers, he must be formal1y told at the time of arrest Wi he t being arrested and also under which 
The following points ust be noted In conc tion with SPA a. rests I e Regi below the rank of en 10 
(1) Any soldier who makes an arret uder o must be authorised to do so byn Oicr ofLl t 
Latendeont.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1839')
	10. hen a person is arrested under VA poers, he must be formal1y told at the time of arrest Wi he t being arrested and also under which

MR FAULKNER In case there is anything on that 
PRIME MINISTER You see we can go on holding him under our 
immigration laws, but if there is no charge preferred, we should have in the end to send him back to Dublin and the general feeling is that if he has got to be sent back it is probably better to end him back earlier than later.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5828')
	You see we can go on holding him under our 
immigration laws, but if there is no charge preferred, we should have in the end to send him back to Dublin and the general feeling is that if he has got to be sent back it is probably better to end him back earlier than later.

This will be done only after a careful scrutiny of information furnished to me by the polic in respect of each such person, sufficient to convince me that the individual in question is a threat to present peace and maintenance of order. Any such person will then have the right	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_50')
	This will be done only after a careful scrutiny of information furnished to me by the polic in respect of each such person, sufficient to convince me that the individual in question is a threat to present peace and maintenance of order. Any such person will then have the right

List C, ith about W naneu, is of graminnt terrarista aga!	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1868')
	List C, ith about W naneu, is of graminnt terrarista aga!nt whOM there ia 11’. tleak.; lolood of preferring char-e (: - wamW for zzg, r 
ax3sple).

The extent to which these facilities can be provided may, of course, be conditioned by two factors - (a) security, and (b) the readiness of internees to avail of them. 
19. Moreover, serious though the effect of internment has undoubtedly been in hardening Catholic opinion, there are very real signs 
- in the view of those, like	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6955')
	Moreover, serious though the effect of internment has undoubtedly been in hardening Catholic opinion, there are very real signs 
- in the view of those, like

" W Totegat Violas#e gruted WA the "Utir of 1rtssted Fo.~	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1507')
	W Totegat Violas#e gruted WA the "Utir of 1rtssted Fo.~tni ºuocesfttl lyem w01 Eetsino, It wt obe pr6eat, the, ofore, i View of the serious Prism taffing Prblex which egotso4y t -exaine, inthelighta the peciaciircustaceo of i1neant ’rotestant terrorig, the possibility of% 
a. b, Trnferring prisners to a prisO II Rinforeing, still further, the Northern Ireladpri son staff from GB,

Internment: 6. 
First Alternative As soon as responsibility has been transferred an immediate review 
will be put in hand by this Government of all internment orders with a view to revoking as many of them as possible consistent with public safety.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7214')
	As soon as responsibility has been transferred an immediate review 
will be put in hand by this Government of all internment orders with a view to revoking as many of them as possible consistent with public safety.

is on timing.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7899')
	is on timing.

It is, therefore, sometimes suggested that special courts should be set up with their own procedure so that in appropriate cases persons at present interned could be brought before them.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4921')
	The reason for internment is that while a good deal is 
known about internees, the evidence, such as it is, would not in most cases stand up in court according to normal legal tests; further, even if the evidence were sufficient, there would be obvious objections to disclosing its nature to the defence or allowing a confrontation between the security forces and the accused. It is, therefore, sometimes suggested that special courts should be set up with their own procedure so that in appropriate cases persons at present interned could be brought before them.

c. 
it would provide internees accommodation at the expense of Army requirements. it is more easily guarded externally and internally than	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2279')
	the disadvantages of MAIDSTONE are: a. 
it can only take 150 internees immediately. b. it would be unsatisfactory for internees for more than 
about one month. c. 
it would provide internees accommodation at the expense of Army requirements.

FAULKNER’S JUDGEMENT WAS THAT THE CONSEQUENCES OF THAT FOR THE COMMUNITY WOULD BE WORSE THAN THE CONSEQUENCES OF WHAT IS NOW PROPOSED.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_176')
	FAULKNER’S JUDGEMENT WAS THAT THE CONSEQUENCES OF THAT FOR THE COMMUNITY WOULD BE WORSE THAN THE CONSEQUENCES OF WHAT IS NOW PROPOSED.

1. If Northern Ireland is to survive and prosper, two things 
are essential.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2162')
	If Northern Ireland is to survive and prosper, two things 
are essential. We must sustain a continuing programme of economic and soial development, and we must find the means to create a more united society here 
- one in which all men of 
good will, however divergent their legitimato political views may participate to the full. These things are, and will continue to be, the aims of our policy.

The rest of us cannot truly be free while people determined to commit such outrages are at large.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2165')
	The action we have now taken does not indicate any policy of repression. We are acting not to suppress freedom, but to allow the overwhelming mass of our people to enjoy freedom including freedom from fear of the gunman, of the nightly explosion, of fire-raising, of kangaroo courts and all the apparatus of terrorism. The rest of us cannot truly be free while people determined to commit such outrages are at large.

We quite apreciate that the political impact 
would be greater if it could be announced that, along with accelerating the release of those already interned, there would be no further internment orders: but there are important security reasons for not doing this.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6778')
	We quite apreciate that the political impact 
would be greater if it could be announced that, along with accelerating the release of those already interned, there would be no further internment orders: but there are important security reasons for not doing this.

of access to an advisory committee.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2163')
	of access to an advisory committee. which will hear representations for release and make recommendations to me.

Opportunity was taken to attack the judiciary and the RUC for failing Such resolutions are clearly indicative of the Republican Resolution The political attack on the Government has, for the present, been contained, but the Prime Minister and his colleagues are likely to remain under 
pressure from hardline Unionists to enforce "law and order" by which they really mean punitive action against Catholics.	('PREM_15_101', 'IMG_4627')
	the Prime Minister and his colleagues are likely to remain under 
pressure from hardline Unionists to enforce "law and order" by which they really mean punitive action against Catholics.

THEY WOULD BE SWEPT ASIDE BY THE TRIUMPHANT GUNMAN.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6926')
	’WHAT IF I WERE TO LISTEN NOW TO MR HUME AND HIS COLLEAGUES, 
AND EMPTY THE CAMPS TOMORROW? WHO CAN SERIOUSLY IMAGINE THAT IN THAT SITUATION THEY WOULD BE ABLE TO EXERT ANY INFLUENCE FOR PEACE? THEY WOULD BE SWEPT ASIDE BY THE TRIUMPHANT GUNMAN.

and responsibility to the United Kingdom Government would probably in the end turn out to be not very much different than if there were a direct transfer to Westminster.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6812')
	The suggestion was made at the Ministers’ meeting on 9th February that one possibility might be to entrust law and order to a Governor having effective executive powers; he would be responsible to the United Kingdom Government, but the control would remain a local one. 
The main difficulty is that it seems 
unacceptable that, at any rate for more than a very brief period, responsibility for the main functions involved - control of the police, running the prisons, operating internment policy, all of which raise issues as to the rights and liberty of the subject should be exercised without there being ultimate responsibility to a democratically elected body; and responsibility to the United Kingdom Government would probably in the end turn out to be not very much different than if there were a direct transfer to Westminster.

As you will see from our comments, the Prime Minister is recommended to avoid getting into the details of this case on the grounds that Moore was only detained for 48 hours and not subjected to interrogation in depth or the techniques discussed in the Parker Report.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4928')
	As you will see from our comments, the Prime Minister is recommended to avoid getting into the details of this case on the grounds that Moore was only detained for 48 hours and not subjected to interrogation in depth or the techniques discussed in the Parker Report.

My Lords, on the first occasion on which I spoke in your Lordships’ House following the introduction of internment, I said that I disliked as much as anyone the idea of holding people in custody without trial, and that only a very grave situation could possibly justify it - but that such a situation existed in Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6632')
	My Lords, on the first occasion on which I spoke in your Lordships’ House following the introduction of internment, I said that I disliked as much as anyone the idea of holding people in custody without trial, and that only a very grave situation could possibly justify it - but that such a situation existed in Northern Ireland.

if the Security Foroos advised in favour of it.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2263')
	It is rolovant that both Ur Chicheator-Clarke and Ur Faulknor Javo stated that.-they would. 
onl .contemplate internment .if the Security Foroos advised in favour of it.

Sir John Peck’s present feeling is that the suggestion in 
We are assuming that the Prime Minister envisages a 
the British Press that the Republic might be proceeding with internment on their own (paragraph 4 of the telegram we sent last night) can be dismissed as wishful thinking.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5843')
	Sir John Peck’s present feeling is that the suggestion in 
We are assuming that the Prime Minister envisages a 
the British Press that the Republic might be proceeding with internment on their own (paragraph 4 of the telegram we sent last night) can be dismissed as wishful thinking.

3. [He will also announce that all outstanding applications to start rifle clubs are being refused, and that no new applications will be considered.]	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_204')
	[He will also announce that all outstanding applications to start rifle clubs are being refused, and that no new applications will be considered.]

CIVILIAN WITNESSES: 
- Witnesses who are members of the Security Forces or th - Would have the right if they so wished to giv 
evidence on affidavit only, and to be anonymous.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6754')
	CIVILIAN WITNESSES: 
- Witnesses who are members of the Security Forces or th - Would have the right if they so wished to giv 
evidence on affidavit only, and to be anonymous. Identities to be disclosed only to the Bench.

An arrested person could be held for 72 hours for questioning; and then either discharged or brought before a magistrate to be committed to a special court.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7787')
	An arrested person could be held for 72 hours for questioning; and then either discharged or brought before a magistrate to be committed to a special court. A special court would consist of a judge of the Supreme Court sitting with any other judge of the Supreme Court or a county court judge or a resident magistrate.

Amongst those 
now interned are over 80 officers of the Official and Provisional Wing of the I.R.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5589')
	Amongst those 
now interned are over 80 officers of the Official and Provisional Wing of the I.R.A.

1 b. Regulation but the soldier must have a.: 
Arrests under RqZulation 11 No specific authorisation 1.necessary under this 
S$utrnicion as 
the basis for the arrest and Blue Card formila rust b used.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1839')
	Regulation but the soldier must have a.: 
Arrests under RqZulation 11 No specific authorisation 1.necessary under this 
S$utrnicion as 
the basis for the arrest and Blue Card formila rust b used.

You have yourself recognised on occasion that it is a necessary means to an end in certain circumstances.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5902')
	You have yourself recognised on occasion that it is a necessary means to an end in certain circumstances.

(f) Internment or detention.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7796')
	Internment or detention. I understand that the Secretary of State 
remains unwilling to reintroduce internment but may be prepared to make detention orders for periods of up to 28 days on a fairly wide scale; and the Attorney General may say that the existing provisions of the Special Powers Acts suffice to make this legal, provided that interrogation is continued throughout this period.

7. 
I think the House on studying the Report will conclude that this I made it clear to the Committee on the day they were appointed 
that their terms of reference included complaints of physical brutality in respect of a small number of men arrested on 9th August who were interrogated in depth after a detention order had been made against them.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5121')
	I think the House on studying the Report will conclude that this

We can all understand the anxieties that the 
progressive closure of Long Kesh and Magilligan will create in the minds of all who fear an intensification of violence.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6915')
	We can all understand the anxieties that the 
progressive closure of Long Kesh and Magilligan will create in the minds of all who fear an intensification of violence.

I will be making internment orders in respect of such of these men as constitute a serious and continuing that to public order and safety.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_50')
	I will be making internment orders in respect of such of these men as constitute a serious and continuing that to public order and safety.

(ATTRIBUTABLE) 
C. THE SECURITY FORCES DEAL WITH ANY LAW-BREAKING BY EXTREMIST PROTESTANTS AS FIRMLY AS THEY DEAL WITH SIMILAR TROUBLE COMING FROM ROMAN CATHOLIC ELEMENTS.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_166')
	THE SECURITY FORCES DEAL WITH ANY LAW-BREAKING BY EXTREMIST PROTESTANTS AS FIRMLY AS THEY DEAL WITH SIMILAR TROUBLE COMING FROM ROMAN CATHOLIC ELEMENTS.

What had been done had been done deliberately for professional reasons.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5904')
	Later in the evening I telephoned the United Kingdom Representative 
who told me that he had already raised the matter with the General Officer Commanding and that he had expressed satisfaction with the arrangements as they were now working. There appeared to be no question of any political interference. What had been done had been done deliberately for professional reasons.

THE MARCHES DUE IN DERRY ON 12 AUGUST AND IN BELFAST AT THE END OF THE MONTH WILL NOT TAKE PLACE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_180')
	THE MARCHES DUE IN DERRY ON 12 AUGUST AND IN BELFAST AT THE END OF THE MONTH WILL NOT TAKE PLACE.

On internment, Mr Faulkner said that he expected shortly to receive the first batch of recommendations of the advisory committee set up to consider the cases of interned persons.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6182')
	On internment, Mr Faulkner said that he expected shortly to receive the first batch of recommendations of the advisory committee set up to consider the cases of interned persons.

"Your telegram today is unjustified in its 
content, unacceptable in its attempt to interfere in the affairs of the United Kingdom, and can in no way contribute to the solution to the problems of Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5863')
	"Your telegram today is unjustified in its 
content, unacceptable in its attempt to interfere in the affairs of the United Kingdom, and can in no way contribute to the solution to the problems of Northern Ireland.

abiding citizens.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8058')
	abiding citizens.

as a condition of their release reads:- 
The oath given by internees 
"I swear by Almighty God that for the remainder of my life I will not join in or assist any illegal organisation nor engage in any violence nor counsel nor encourage others so to do."	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6291')
	"I swear by Almighty God that for the remainder of my life I will not join in or assist any illegal organisation nor engage in any violence nor counsel nor encourage others so to do."

(We would then give the names This public statement 
men and their sympathisers would know who could, and who could not, hope safely to return to Northern Ireland.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1907')
	This public statement

Despite 
provocations of which the Press and other public media give us daily evidence, those responsible for arrests have carried out their duties with a high regard for humanitarian principles.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5165')
	Despite 
provocations of which the Press and other public media give us daily evidence, those responsible for arrests have carried out their duties with a high regard for humanitarian principles.

The Government therefore appointed a Commission, composed of distinguished laymen and lawyers, and chaired by a most eminent judge of the House of Lords, Lord Diplock.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9320')
	The Government therefore appointed a Commission, composed of distinguished laymen and lawyers, and chaired by a most eminent judge of the House of Lords, Lord Diplock

Its benefits should be felt not least in those areas where violent men have exercised a certain away by.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2163')
	Its benefits should be felt not least in those areas where violent men have exercised a certain away by. threat and intimidation over decent and responsible men and women.

In sum, we are in the position under the existing law and powers whereby we cannot deal with the key terrorists, even after we have caught them, other than by internment.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7783')
	n sum, we are in the position under the existing law and powers whereby we cannot deal with the key terrorists, even after we have caught them, other than by internment.

But in any event it seems unlikely that a meeting will be called until In the meantime Ministers will be looking for ways 
in which to demonstrate to the community and particularly to their supporters their determination to take adequate measures in the law and order field s as to enhance their credibility as a Government.	('PREM_15_101', 'IMG_4624')
	In the meantime Ministers will be looking for ways 
in which to demonstrate to the community and particularly to their supporters their determination to take adequate measures in the law and order field s as to enhance their credibility as a Government.

DRAFT MESSAGE TO THE TAOISEACH I am sending you this message to let you know 
that the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland will very shortly be announcing that, in the light of the latest assessment of the security situation in Northern Ireland and all other relevant factors, and after consultation with the British Government, the Northern Ireland Government has decided to activate its powers of internment.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_198')
	I am sending you this message to let you know 
that the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland will very shortly be announcing that, in the light of the latest assessment of the security situation in Northern Ireland and all other relevant factors, and after consultation with the British Government, the Northern Ireland Government has decided to activate its powers of internment.

and the representative of the United Kingdom Government will be associated with him in the decisions on individual cases.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7226')
	The categories for this phasing out will be agreed by the Joint Security Committee, which will be augmented by a United Kingdom Minister, who will be joint chairman of the Committee with the Northern Ireland Minister of Home Affairs; each of these joint chairmen will have a right of veto; 
The formal authority 
in connection with internment, whether for purposes of release or future internment, will continue to rest with the Northern Ireland Minister for Home Affairs; and the representative of the United Kingdom Government will be associated with him in the decisions on individual cases.

IN PURELY MILITARY 
TERMS, SEEKING TO CONTAIN THE SITUATION BY THE MEANS EMPLOYED HITHERTO WOULD HAVE MEANT AT BEST A LONG HAUL.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_196')
	IN PURELY MILITARY 
TERMS, SEEKING TO CONTAIN THE SITUATION BY THE MEANS EMPLOYED HITHERTO WOULD HAVE MEANT AT BEST A LONG HAUL.

When I.R.A.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5590')
	When I.R.A. groups emerge 
from concealment for an attack the security forces are always in a position to engage or capture and if open confrontation occurs there is always, as we know, an appalling risk of innocent people being injured or killed.

10. That is the aim we must now put before everything also, and for this reason I have also decided that the security forces mus 
not, at this critical time, be diverted from their essentiaL tasks.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2164')
	That is the aim we must now put before everything also,

It would thus involve all aspects of the internment policy, including decisions on the making of individual internment orders. There are other matters which might also have to	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6673')
	Transfer of Law and Order (i) What should this heading comprise? In GEN 47(71) 8 the Chairman of the Official Committee suggested the police, the Special Powers Acts, prosecutions, courts, prisons and internment camps and the probation and children’s ,services. It would thus involve all aspects of the internment policy, including decisions on the making of individual internment orders.

(c) Persons whom it is desired to intern (or detain for more than 5 days for purposes other than interrogation), if it is decided that a policy of internment will not jeopardise the political objectives of the operation.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_13')
	Persons whom it is desired to intern (or detain for more than 5 days for purposes other than interrogation), if it is decided that a policy of internment will not jeopardise the political objectives of the operation.

Hillery intervened to refer to 2,200 refugees in camps in The Home Secretary replied that if it were not for the IRA 
campaign these people would still be in their own homes.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_145')
	The Home Secretary replied that if it were not for the IRA 
campaign these people would still be in their own homes. It should be clearly 
understood that they were the victims of the IRA.

The outrages to which we have been subjected now threaten our economic life and create every day deeper divisions and antagonism within our community.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5162')
	The outrages to which we have been subjected now threaten our economic life and create every day deeper divisions and antagonism within our community.

Period of Detention for Interrogation 22. There is no statutory time limit to the period for which persons arrested under Regulation 11 of the Special Powers Act can be held for interrogation.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7987')
	There is no statutory time limit to the period for which persons arrested under Regulation 11 of the Special Powers Act can be held for interrogation. 
However, if at the PO a subject 
is recommended for extended uestioning beyond a period of 48 hours after arrest, the approval of the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland will be sought.

activity both 
North and South of the Border.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2298')
	Internmnt has been used in the past against I.R.A. activity both 
North and South of the Border.

(b) Transfer of Law and Order (i) What should this heading comprise?	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6673')
	Transfer of Law and Order (i) What should this heading comprise? In GEN 47(71) 8 the Chairman of the Official Committee suggested the police, the Special Powers Acts, prosecutions, courts, prisons and internment camps and the probation and children’s ,services. It would thus involve all aspects of the internment policy, including decisions on the making of individual internment orders.

We are at one in condemning any form of 
violence as an instrument of political pressure; and it is our common purpose to seek to bring violence and internment and all other emergency measures to an end without delay.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5697')
	We are at one in condemning any form of 
violence as an instrument of political pressure; and it is our common purpose to seek to bring violence and internment and all other emergency measures to an end without delay.

Nor is it in any way punitive or indiscriminate.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_51')
	Nor is it in any way punitive or indiscriminate.

He will be responsible for: 
at the centre.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2179')
	: 
at the centre. b. 
All legal formalities relating to the custody of arrested persons

TREATMENT OF DENTAINEES 5. Broad princples for the treatment of persons under 
arrest or detention during civil disturbances are laid down in Article 3 of The Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War (1949). Military personnel will follow these principles when conducting interrogation.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5176')
	Broad princples for the treatment of persons under 
arrest or detention during civil disturbances are laid down in Article 3 of The Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War (1949).

(The actual 
conduct of interrogation for intelligence purposes will be discussed later in the meeting.)	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7694')
	ensure that instructions are issued to the RUC on the importance of distinguishing between the type of questioning appropriate to a prisoner against whom charges are likely to be brought in court and the type appropriate when the object is simply to secure intelligence. 
(The actual 
conduct of interrogation for intelligence purposes will be discussed later in the meeting.)

For force stands in the gray of all progress and thc men of force, whatever their 
protestations, are- the enemies of us all.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_54')
	l’irm action on security io not a subutitutc for constructive change nor is it a sitch of policy: It is 3i..:hly\htjZ .:’2(cded toallo; the dera’IatCic kroccos to 
prevail over the rule of force. For force stands in the gray of all progress and thc men of force, whatever their 
protestations, are- the enemies of us all.

MY TWO IPTs: NORTHERN IRELAND Following is the text of the memorandum: 
BEGINS "When HMG assumed direct responsibility for affairs 
in Northern Ireland in March 1972, the Prime Minister stated the government’s intention to make a start in the process of bringing internment to an end.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9319')
	"When HMG assumed direct responsibility for affairs 
in Northern Ireland in March 1972, the Prime Minister stated the government’s intention to make a start in the process of bringing internment to an end. The Secretary of State for Northern Ireland reviewed personally the cases of all those who had been interned, and, the Prime Minister said during his conversation with His Holiness in October, the great majority were released.

C. 
the UDR 
Internment This may be the most difficult part of the discussion,	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5707')
	This may be the most difficult part of the discussion, since it 
represente the issue where Mr. Faulkner can least afford to give ground but Mr. Lynch may be most concerned to extract some concession as his price for supporting the Horne Secretary’s discussions (if he is otherwise prepared to do so).

I ask those who will quite sincerely consider the use of internment powers as evil to answer honestly this question:Is it more of an evil than to allow the perpetrators of these outrages to remain at liberty?	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_51')
	I ask those who will quite sincerely consider the use of internment powers as evil to answer honestly this question:Is it more of an evil than to allow the perpetrators of these outrages to remain at liberty?

Legislation is therefore being prepared and this may include those emergency powers which will still be required if the Government decides to repeal the Special Powers Act.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_160')
	Legislation is therefore being prepared and this may include those emergency powers which will still be required if the Government decides to repeal the Special Powers Act.

The oesrtary of tte hadso"Wd for a paper s this subject to be prepared by the M4 and the Ohief# establo	('DEFE_13_1358', 'IMG_9587')
	Arrest Polty for n poaiama Muisesmis h ua 
The oesrtary of tte hadso"Wd for a paper s this subject to be prepared by the M4 and the Ohief# establo

Action against extremists would continue.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_19')
	The arrest of a larger number after 7 February, some of whom had been subjected to detention orders and others charged, had not led to trouble. 
Action against extremists would continue.

TER ULSTER rHPS MRQ 
PADDY DEVLN **LEAKED*’ THE MOVEV AWD ALLEED THAT THE GDERS HAD BE"N SERVED AT 10 Pphi LAST NIGHT9 
THE HOVE INEDIATELY SPARKED A STORM F PROTEST BY Cl-VIL 
RiGHTS LEADERSv TM NORTHERN IRELAND LEADER Q19 THEY WERE "ENGAGOD 
:N A DEADLY STRUGGLE AGAINST AN ARMED CONSPIRACY WHOSE ItriEDTE e-URPOSE kT TS TO DESTROY THE PEAJET STABILITY AND SECURI’1Y uF TH4-S PART OF THE UrKp ’ITS ULTMATE A:M VAS TO OERTHROW THE DEMOCRATIMALLY 
ACCFPT VWISHES OF THE AJ(RITY C?	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5601')
	TM NORTHERN IRELAND LEADER Q19 THEY WERE "ENGAGOD 
:N A DEADLY STRUGGLE AGAINST AN ARMED CONSPIRACY WHOSE ItriEDTE e-URPOSE kT TS TO DESTROY THE PEAJET STABILITY AND SECURI’1Y uF TH4-S PART OF THE UrKp ’ITS ULTMATE A:M VAS TO OERTHROW THE DEMOCRATIMALLY 
ACCFPT VWISHES OF THE AJ(RITY C? PFPLE IN ULSTE RI - ’:ITIER 
THE ;IReAr NOR INDEE MY OTHER OCRANUISATtIN 
WI:LL E. ALLOWED TO ACHIEVE ThS BY FORCE OF ARMSy’* }i DECIAREDQ

QUOTE YOUR TELEGRAM TODAY IS UNJUSTIFIED IN ITS CONTENT, UNACCEPTABLE IN ITS ATTEMPT TO INTERFERE IN THE AFFAIRS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM, AND CAN IN NO WAY CONTRIBUTE TO THE SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEMS OF NORTHERN IRELAND.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5860')
	YOUR TELEGRAM TODAY IS UNJUSTIFIED IN ITS CONTENT, UNACCEPTABLE IN ITS ATTEMPT TO INTERFERE IN THE AFFAIRS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM, AND CAN IN NO WAY CONTRIBUTE TO THE SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEMS OF NORTHERN IRELAND.

Draft Statement Political Progress can only be impeded so long as violence and 
intimidation continue; and the purpose of internment, and of the Army’s measures which are directed impartially at violence from whatever quarter, is to restore to Northern Ireland the necessary degree of stability for further political advance.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5893')
	Political Progress can only be impeded so long as violence and 
intimidation continue; and the purpose of internment, and of the Army’s measures which are directed impartially at violence from whatever quarter, is to restore to Northern Ireland the necessary degree of stability for further political advance.

I said that this was a question which I would report back but that the object was to produce a situation as soon as possible when people no longer thought they needed to carry firearms and that if persons were going about on normal peaceful business they would not be subject to arbitrary stopping and searching.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7677')
	They raised one subsidiary point; many members of their organisation remained in fear of being attacked and had been accustomed to carrying concealed side-arms. If they were stopped and found to be carrying arms would they be arrested? I said that this was a question which I would report back but that the object was to produce a situation as soon as possible when people no longer thought they needed to carry firearms and that if persons were going about on normal peaceful business they would not be subject to arbitrary stopping and searching.

A.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5589')
	Amongst those 
now interned are over 80 officers of the Official and Provisional Wing of the I.R.A.

Any 
new draft regulations required for this purpose could now be prepared for immediate signature if and when the need arose.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2210')
	Any 
new draft regulations required for this purpose could now be prepared for immediate signature if and when the need arose. 
Rules for the internal 
administration of internment camps had been drafted

I hope, therefore, that those who, 
for reasons which I respect, are opposed to internment whatever the circumstances will also use their influence to bring to an end the conditions which have made internment necessary.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5592')
	I hope, therefore, that those who, 
for reasons which I respect, are opposed to internment whatever the circumstances will also use their influence to bring to an end the conditions which have made internment necessary. 
The return to normal conditions

"I have therefore decided, after weighing all the relevant considerations, including the views of the security authorities and after consultation with Her Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom last Thursday, to exercise where necessary the powers of detention and internment vested in me as Minister of Home Affairs". 
8. 337 men were arrested on Monday 9 August; and the arrests of 
others under the Special Powers Act have continued.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5162')
	I have therefore decided, after weighing all the relevant considerations, including the views of the security authorities and after consultation with Her Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom last Thursday, to exercise where necessary the powers of detention and internment vested in me as Minister of Home Affairs"

ADDITIONALLY, THERE HAS BEEN A MARKED INCREASE IN THE WEIGHT AND QUANTITY OF EXPLOSIVES BEING USED, AND A CROWING NUMBER OF ATTACKS ON COMMERCIAL PREMISES IN BELFAST.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_165')
	ADDITIONALLY, THERE HAS BEEN A MARKED INCREASE IN THE WEIGHT AND QUANTITY OF EXPLOSIVES BEING USED, AND A CROWING NUMBER OF ATTACKS ON COMMERCIAL PREMISES IN BELFAST.

12. The action we have now taken does not indicate any policy of repression.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_53')
	The action we have now taken does not indicate any policy of repression. We are acting not to suppress freedom, but to allow the overwhelming mass of our people to enjoy freedom including freedom from fear of the gunman, of the nightly explosion, of fire-raising, of kangaroo courts and all the apparatus of terrorism.

here has been some speculation whether the Government of the Republic 
may be obliged to contemplate the reintroduction of internment.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6471')
	here has been some speculation whether the Government of the Republic 
may be obliged to contemplate the reintroduction of internment.

If the possibility of a more serious penalty such as imprisonment was involved we should resort to an Act of Indemnity on an individual basis.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4928')
	For deep interrogation the penalties would probably be nominal and the Crown could stand by the personnel as in civil actions. If the possibility of a more serious penalty such as imprisonment was involved we should resort to an Act of Indemnity on an individual basis.

Internment should properly be regarded not so much as an alternative to trial as an alternative to being shot in an act of terrorism.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6175')
	Internment should properly be regarded not so much as an alternative to trial as an alternative to being shot in an act of terrorism.

These things have been done by the IRA. 
Office of the Lord President of the Council 18th November, 1971.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5083')
	The operation should be seen against the background of the fight against a ruthless and murderous enemy; that is to say criminals who ish to impose their will by violence and terror. This year there have been over 800 bomb explosions in Northern Ireland; hospitals have treated nearly 600 victims of violence; of these more than 200 were British soldiers; almost two thirds of the civilian casualties were women including girls disfigured for life in explosions. These things have been done by the IRA.

is this degree of support likely to be available;	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2294')
	Only in Belfast, where security problems are likely to be especially difficult, is this degree of support likely to be available;

A legal judgement made some little time ago has called this into question and the Attorney General considered that there was/ no legal limit on the time which a man could be held under Regulation 11 before he was charged, released or detained.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1861')
	A legal judgement made some little time ago has called this into question and the Attorney General considered that there was/ no legal limit on the time which a man could be held under Regulation 11 before he was charged, released or detained.

certainly is that they can be strictly: temporary, and will serve to reestalbish a situation in which the many social and other reforms that have been introduced are recognised at their true value, and progress can again be resumed on the task of building more harmonious inter-community relations in Northern Ireland.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2194')
	Our hope. certainly is that they can be strictly: temporary,

AN ADVISORY COMMITTEE WILL BE SET UP, TO WHICH ANY ONE WHO IS INTERNED WILL HAVE THE RIGHT TO MAKE REPRESENTATIONS.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_180')
	AN ADVISORY COMMITTEE WILL BE SET UP, TO WHICH ANY ONE WHO IS INTERNED WILL HAVE THE RIGHT TO MAKE REPRESENTATIONS.

FOR OUR PART, WE MADE IT CLEAR THAT THERE COULD BE NO QUESTION OF OUR ACCEPTING INTERNMENT, AND INSTRUCTING OUR FORCES TO HELP TO IMPLEMENT IT, IF IT WAS NOT ACCOMPANIED BY A COMPLETE BAN ON MARCHES AND PARADES OF ALL KINDS: AND WE HAVE MADE CLEAR OUR PRESENT VIEW THAT THAT BAN WILL NEED TO REMAIN IN FORCE FOR LONGER THAN SIX MONTHS, THOUGH THE EXTENSION BEYOND SIX MONTHS REMAINS FORMALLY OPEN FOR DISCUSSION.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_176')
	FOR OUR PART, WE MADE IT CLEAR THAT THERE COULD BE NO QUESTION OF OUR ACCEPTING INTERNMENT, AND INSTRUCTING OUR FORCES TO HELP TO IMPLEMENT IT, IF IT WAS NOT ACCOMPANIED BY A COMPLETE BAN ON MARCHES AND PARADES OF ALL KINDS: AND WE HAVE MADE CLEAR OUR PRESENT VIEW THAT THAT BAN WILL NEED TO REMAIN IN FORCE FOR LONGER THAN SIX MONTHS, THOUGH THE EXTENSION BEYOND SIX MONTHS REMAINS FORMALLY OPEN FOR DISCUSSION.

and that the "further constitutional changes" which the Northern Ireland Government envisage would not in fact guarantee the minority an effective share in the government and administration of the Province as of right;	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7244')
	The Cabinet must now decide whether they regard these counter proposals as:- 
(a) 
adequate in substancebearing in mind that internment and security would be only joint functions, with no certainty that the will of the United Kingdom Government would prevail; and that the "further constitutional changes" which the Northern Ireland Government envisage would not in fact guarantee the minority an effective share in the government and administration of the Province as of right

The Unionists’ demands had certainly not all been met.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7952')
	The Unionists’ demands had certainly not all been met.

This is a far cry from internment.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9321')
	This is a far cry from internment.

in effect, be an amnesty for those IRA men who had managed to evade capture until the date of the truce and who, if they had been captured, could only have been detained or interned under the Special Powers Act, since there was insufficient evidence against them to bring a criminal charge.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1906')
	in effect, be an amnesty for those IRA men who had managed to evade capture until the date of the truce and who, if they had been captured, could only have been detained or interned under the Special Powers Act, since there was insufficient evidence against them to bring a criminal charge.

Allegations of vindictiveness THE PRIME MINISTER said that some action should be taken to refute suggestions that detention orders had been made out of mere political vindictiveness: for example by publishing a general description of those held in order to indicate their close involvement in terrorist activity. 
The United Kingdom	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5872')
	THE PRIME MINISTER said that some action should be taken to refute suggestions that detention orders had been made out of mere political vindictiveness: for example by publishing a general description of those held in order to indicate their close involvement in terrorist activity.

THE UNDERMINING OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL STABILITY IN NORTHERN IRELAND.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_180')
	HE UNDERMINING OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL STABILITY IN NORTHERN IRELAND.

They raised one subsidiary point; many members of their organisation remained in fear of being attacked and had been accustomed to carrying concealed side-arms.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7677')
	They raised one subsidiary point; many members of their organisation remained in fear of being attacked and had been accustomed to carrying concealed side-arms. If they were stopped and found to be carrying arms would they be arrested? I said that this was a question which I would report back but that the object was to produce a situation as soon as possible when people no longer thought they needed to carry firearms and that if persons were going about on normal peaceful business they would not be subject to arbitrary stopping and searching.

Later in the evening I telephoned the United Kingdom Representative 
who told me that he had already raised the matter with the General Officer Commanding and that he had expressed satisfaction with the arrangements as they were now working.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5904')
	Later in the evening I telephoned the United Kingdom Representative 
who told me that he had already raised the matter with the General Officer Commanding and that he had expressed satisfaction with the arrangements as they were now working. There appeared to be no question of any political interference. What had been done had been done deliberately for professional reasons.

The delegation expressed strong views that internment should now end following the success of the military domination of the former "no go" areas.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7894')
	The delegation expressed strong views that internment should now end following the success of the military domination of the former "no go" areas.

The system of internment cannot be ended without putting something in its place.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8052')
	Nevertheless, certain basic problems of countering terrorism 
by the normal processes of law still present difficulties. These include the problem of preventing the intimidation of Witnesses who may be in danger of their lives if they give evidence in court; and of bringing to trial many of those who, although responsible for organising and directing terrorism, take care to avoid so far as possible themselves engaging in terrorist operations. The system of internment cannot be ended without putting something in its place.

The Home Office official was most unhappy with this definition and believed that there would be humanitarian pressures to provide for creature comforts.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2290')
	Status. The present terms of reference state that internees should be treated as convicted criminals. The Home Office official was most unhappy with this definition and believed that there would be humanitarian pressures to provide for creature comforts.

It was 
Ministers noted that it was proposed that ed that it was desirable that this second r of action 
should be completed as soon as possible.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5879')
	there should be a second round of detentions as soon as the information obtained from the first detainees had been digested. It was 
Ministers noted that it was proposed that ed that it was desirable that this second r of action 
should be completed as soon as possible.

are not included where I am not satisfied that they are sufficiently deeply implicated and committed to violence to justify their being interned.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5589')
	Members of various organisations who have been associated in one way or 
another with the I.R.A. are not included where I am not satisfied that they are sufficiently deeply implicated and committed to violence to justify their being interned.

There are I think some improvements which might be made to the interrment 
appeal procedure for example, by allowing legal representation of internees at the hearing - but this would be little more than window dressing and would be regarded as tinkering.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6306')
	There are I think some improvements which might be made to the interrment 
appeal procedure for example, by allowing legal representation of internees at the hearing - but this would be little more than window dressing and would be regarded as tinkering.

It would also be so regarded by members of the Security Forces The IRA could, therefore, dictate future terms.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6958')
	The IRA would regard any programme of release for political reasons as an important success. 
and the general public. 
It would also be so regarded by members of the Security Forces The IRA could, therefore, dictate future terms.

Introduction of Internment 6. 
The preservation of law and order in Northern Ireland is primarily 
the responsibility of the Northern Ireland Government.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5161')
	Introduction of Internment 6. 
The preservation of law and order in Northern Ireland is primarily 
the responsibility of the Northern Ireland Government.

The message suggests a possible misunderstanding of the situation.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9317')
	I agree that the Pope’s reference to internment was a disappointing feature of his message. The message suggests a possible misunderstanding of the situation.

The Government reaffirm their determination to improve the security situation in Northern Ireland and to deal with terrorists, including those who, for the reasons indicated earlier, cannot be dealt with through the normal processes of the criminal law.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8053')
	The Government reaffirm their determination to improve the security situation in Northern Ireland and to deal with terrorists, including those who, for the reasons indicated earlier, cannot be dealt with through the normal processes of the criminal law.

I ask those who will quite sincerely consider the use of internment powers as evil to answer honestly this question: Is it more of an evil than to allow the perpetrators of these outrages to remain at liberty?	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2163')
	Is it more of an evil than to allow the perpetrators of these outrages to remain at liberty?

18. 
The Prime Minister has seen the Pope’s reply set out He has noted in particular 
the request in paragraph 4 that internment should be ended, and would be grateful for your advice on whether he should send a further message to the Pope explaining what action has been taken over internment.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9353')
	He has noted in particular 
the request in paragraph 4 that internment should be ended, and would be grateful for your advice on whether he should send a further message to the Pope explaining what action has been taken over internment

Legal Powers for the Security Forces 
16. Most of the powers which the security forces are expected to recuire for the implementation of this plan are already available under the Special Powers Regulations. The additional powers which the Army itself would wish to have are considered in Annex C. 
17. But, however comprehensive the specific powers that 
are available, it will be inherent in the nature of the operation that individual members of the security forces will be faced even more than usual with taking instant decisions on whether and how to act (eg whether to open fire) and it is thought essential, if the security forces are not to be seriously inhibited, that such decisions should be taken without the fear of their legality 
In that case, it is 
On the answer to this question depends whether - detention and	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_32')
	Most of the powers which the security forces are expected to recuire for the implementation of this plan are already available under the Special Powers Regulations. The additional powers which the Army itself would wish to have are considered in Annex C. 
17. But, however comprehensive the specific powers that 
are available, it will be inherent in the nature of the operation that individual members of the security forces will be faced even more than usual with taking instant decisions on whether and how to act (eg whether to open fire) and it is thought essential, if the security forces are not to be seriously inhibited, that such decisions should be taken without the fear of their legality

(ATTRIBUTABLE) 
D. VIOLENCE HAS THROUGHOUT BEEN CONDEMNED BY THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_166')
	VIOLENCE HAS THROUGHOUT BEEN CONDEMNED BY THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.

"Other terrorists who are known, on the basis of a joint intelligence assessment, to be an exceptionally serious threat to security, end for whom, in the absence of evidence which could form the basis of a criminal charge, a strong case could be made for an interim custody order."	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1801')
	"Other terrorists who are known, on the basis of a joint intelligence assessment, to be an exceptionally serious threat to security, end for whom, in the absence of evidence which could form the basis of a criminal charge, a strong case could be made for an interim custody order."

The apparatus of the committee would not be required until internment orders (as opposed to detention orders) had been made.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5872')
	s to the committee itself, he was in process of setting it up and had invited Judge Brown, a Northern Ireland county court judge, to preside. The apparatus of the committee would not be required until internment orders (as opposed to detention orders) had been made.

We must bring violence to an end, and internment has been introduced only as a means of achieving this.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5902')
	We must bring violence to an end, and internment has been introduced only as a means of achieving this.

INSTEAD WOULD YOU 
CONSIDER POINTING OUT TO HIM THAT UNLESS THE IRISH GOVERNMENT CAN TAKE ACTION AGAINST THE PROVISIONALSN, (AND WHETHER BY INTERNMENT, NEW LEGISLATION, OR THE ENFORCEMENT OF EXISTING LAWS IS THEIR AFFAIR) THEIR CREDIBILITY AND STANDING IN RELATION TO THE AFFAIRS OF THE NORTH ARE GREATLY IMPAIRED.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5823')
	INSTEAD WOULD YOU 
CONSIDER POINTING OUT TO HIM THAT UNLESS THE IRISH GOVERNMENT CAN TAKE ACTION AGAINST THE PROVISIONALSN, (AND WHETHER BY INTERNMENT, NEW LEGISLATION, OR THE ENFORCEMENT OF EXISTING LAWS IS THEIR AFFAIR) THEIR CREDIBILITY AND STANDING IN RELATION TO THE AFFAIRS OF THE NORTH ARE GREATLY IMPAIRED.

3. 
Anyone arrested, and not charged, will be released after 48 hours unless he is arrested under Regulation 11, in which case he will be released after another 
24 hours unless a detention order has been signed.	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1760')
	Anyone arrested, and not charged, will be released after 48 hours unless he is arrested under Regulation 11, in which case he will be released after another 
24 hours unless a detention order has been signed.

5. No-one is now detained except under these 
procedures and those detained have been found by an independent commissioner with legal training and experience to have been involved in terrorism and to be someone from whom the public need to be protected.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9322')
	No-one is now detained except under these 
procedures and those detained have been found by an independent commissioner with legal training and experience to have been involved in terrorism and to be someone from whom the public need to be protected.

We are at one in condemning any form of violence as an instrument 
of political pressure; and it is our common purpose to seek to bring violence, and internment and all other emergency measures to an end without delay.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5696')
	We are at one in condemning any form of violence as an instrument 
of political pressure; and it is our common purpose to seek to bring violence, and internment and all other emergency measures to an end without delay.

5. WHEN FAULKNER CAME TO LONDON LAST WEEK, HE TOLD US THAT HE HAD COME TO THE CONCLUSION THAT INTERNMENT WAS NOW THE RIGHT AID INDEED INEVITABLE COURSE. THE LATEST SERIES OF ACTS OF TERRORISM	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_175')
	WHEN FAULKNER CAME TO LONDON LAST WEEK, HE TOLD US THAT HE HAD COME TO THE CONCLUSION THAT INTERNMENT WAS NOW THE RIGHT AID INDEED INEVITABLE COURSE. THE LATEST SERIES OF ACTS OF TERRORISM

On assuming direct responsibility for the government of Northern Ireland, 
HM Government made clear that it was their objective to the system of internment under the Special Powers Act as 
soon as the security situation permitted; and to enquire whether the powers conferred under that Act might be repealed in whole or in part.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8056')
	On assuming direct responsibility for the government of Northern Ireland, 
HM Government made clear that it was their objective to the system of internment under the Special Powers Act as 
soon as the security situation permitted; and to enquire whether the powers conferred under that Act might be repealed in whole or in part.

It would deprive him of the right to face his accuser and to contest any evidence before the court which had not been put directly to him in the course of his examination. But	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4922')
	It would have to be accepted that such a procedure 
would make fundamental inroads into the protection which we normally give in this country to an accused person. It would deprive him of the right to face his accuser and to contest any evidence before the court which had not been put directly to him in the course of his examination. But

Act (Northern Ireland) 1922. 5. 
Operation off Regional Holding Centres and Maidstone Used as Places of Detention Under Regulation 11 of the Civil Authorities 
In this event the 
Persons arrested and held at each centre can expect to Thereafter they will 
The Chief (Special Powers) 
BALLYKINKLER, MAGILLIGAN and MAIDSTONE may be among places specified by the Civil/Authority as places of detention.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2179')
	Act (Northern Ireland) 1922. 5. 
Operation off Regional Holding Centres and Maidstone Used as Places of Detention Under Regulation 11 of the Civil Authorities

(ii) A provision (not yet fully worked out) would be desirable to authorise the setting up of special or additional civilian criminal courts or to modify the procedure for the trial of offences in order to prevent undue delay in the administration of justice during the emergency period.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_40')
	A provision (not yet fully worked out) would be desirable to authorise the setting up of special or additional civilian criminal courts or to modify the procedure for the trial of offences in order to prevent undue delay in the administration of justice during the emergency period.

anyone caught in the company of someone caught in the act of committing,	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1759')
	anyone caught in the company of someone caught in the act of committing, or having just committed, a criminal offence, if there is reason to think he may be able to give information about the offence or important information about the IRA generally.

The three categories of persons are (l) any police constable; (2) any soldier on duty; and (3) any person authorised for the purpose by the Minister of Home Affairs. This Regulation differs from Regulation 10 in that the person arresting must suspect the person arrested of	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2174')
	Regulation 11 enables three categories of persons to mak 
an arrest without warrant in certain circumstances - general 
suspicious circumstances. The three categories of persons are (l) any police constable; (2) any soldier on duty; and (3) any person authorised for the purpose by the Minister of Home Affairs. This Regulation differs from Regulation 10 in that the person arresting must suspect the person arrested of

The Secretary of State does not expect to be asked to sign detention orders at any greater rate than at present. Thereafter, he may be questioned at large to see whether he can Anyone arrested under	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1760')
	Anyone arrested under

supported by the Lord Chancellor, is likely to emphasise the difficulty of associating judges with the kind of court described in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to GEN 79(72) 17. 
If Ministers 
are convinced, however, that the introduction of special courts or tribunals would have a material impact in terms of convicting terrorists, the political price may be thought to be worth paying.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8109')
	supported by the Lord Chancellor, is likely to emphasise the difficulty of associating judges with the kind of court described in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to GEN 79(72) 17. 
If Ministers 
are convinced, however, that the introduction of special courts or tribunals would have a material impact in terms of convicting terrorists, the political price may be thought to be worth paying.

of an illegal oranietion ains p ,rimen ha shown the great 
difficulty of getting avideo which will staat up in courts and unless detention ordr a ei made following arrest undor the wpeci.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1868')
	unless detention ordr a ei made following arrest undor the wpeci.1 P oewrs ct, thouearreoted can beheld for only 43 hourz. 7i 
a is not long eunmia to 
affect the situation an the grotad and it bosts the noul aof the terorists if theyeen 
ks capital opt of the inability of the ecurity :roes to hold thee.

In effect, this would be a substitution of the administrative decision of (now) the Secretary of State by the decision of a committee.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_8005')
	In effect, this would be a substitution of the administrative decision of (now) the Secretary of State by the decision of a committee.

For our part, we made it clear that there could be no question of our accepting internment, and instructing our forces to help to implement it, if it was not accompanied by a complete ban on marches and parades of all kinds; and we have made clear our present view that that ban will need to remain in force though the extension 
six months remains 
formally open for discussion.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_199')
	For our part, we made it clear that there could be no question of our accepting internment, and instructing our forces to help to implement it, if it was not accompanied by a complete ban on marches and parades of all kinds; and we have made clear our present view that that ban will need to remain in force though the extension 
six months remains 
formally open for discussion.

The arrest of a larger number after 7 February, some of whom had been subjected to detention orders and others charged, had not led to trouble.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_19')
	The arrest of a larger number after 7 February, some of whom had been subjected to detention orders and others charged, had not led to trouble. 
Action against extremists would continue.

The Prime Minister has emphasised to me that the Advisory Committee, on which an eminent English lawyer and a local businessman serve with Judge Brown, is able to review all cases, and that he has publicly stated that it would be quite extraordinary if he were not to accept this advice.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_6019')
	The Prime Minister has emphasised to me that the Advisory Committee, on which an eminent English lawyer and a local businessman serve with Judge Brown, is able to review all cases, and that he has publicly stated that it would be quite extraordinary if he were not to accept this advice. He has, in fact, released every internee whose release the Committee has recommended.

The pace of releases will depend on the state of public security and the effect upon it of the release of particular internees whose cases are under review.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7239')
	The pace of releases will depend on the state of public security and the effect upon it of the release of particular internees whose cases are under review.

THE WHOLE PURPOSE OF WHICH WAS TO DISCUSS THE POSSIBILITIES OF REDUCING TENSION AND RESTORING CO-OPERATION BETWEEN THE COMMUNITIES IN NORTHERN IRELAND.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5862')
	THE PRIME MINISTER ASKED THAT YOU SHOULD MAKE EVERY EFFORT TO DELIVER THIS MESSAGE PERSONALLY TO MR. LYNCH AT THE EARLIEST POSSIBLE MOMENT, IF NECESSARY BY TELEPHONE, AND THAT IN DOING SO YOU SHOULD MAKE THE STRONGEST POSSIBLE REPRESENTATIONS BOTH ABOUT THE CONTENT OF THE MESSAGE AND ABOUT ITS TIMING IN RELATION TO A MEETING WITH MR. FAULKNER, THE WHOLE PURPOSE OF WHICH WAS TO DISCUSS THE POSSIBILITIES OF REDUCING TENSION AND RESTORING CO-OPERATION BETWEEN THE COMMUNITIES IN NORTHERN IRELAND.

Phasing out of Special Powers Act and replacement by less objectionable legislation, making use of internment dependent on declaration of emergency.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7236')
	out of Special Powers Act and replacement by less objectionable legislation, making use of internment dependent on declaration of emergency. 
Periodical referenda on Border. after violence ends

Progress was not, however, possible while violence reigned.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_148')
	Progress was not, however, possible while violence reigned. It was the duty of both Governments to deal with gunmen. The United Kingdom was determined that violence should be dealt with impartially from whatever quarter it might come. Because the violence had reached a level threatening the life of the community, the United Kingdom Government had been reluctantly convinced that internment was necessary.

SITUATION ALTERED, AND HE EXPLAINED THE DIFFICULTIES IN THIS (APART OF COURSE FROM THAT OF THE MORALE OF PART OF THE SECURITY FORCES). HE SAID THAT HE WOULD DISCUSS THE POINTS PUT FORWARD BY THE SDLP WITH THE PRIME MINISTER.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7890')
	INTERNMENT AS SOON AS THE SECURITY. SITUATION ALTERED, AND HE EXPLAINED THE DIFFICULTIES IN THIS (APART OF COURSE FROM THAT OF THE MORALE OF PART OF THE SECURITY FORCES).

THE ESSENTIAL MEASURES ON WHICH WE HAVE DECIDED INCLUDE THE TRANSFER OF FULL RESPONSIBILITY FOR LAW AND ORDER FROM STORMONT TO WESTMINISTER: A REVIEW OF ExiSTING INTERNMENT ORDERS SO THAT THE LESS IMPORTANT INTERNEES ARE PROGRESSIVELY RELEASED: THE APPOINTMENT OF A SECRETARY OF STATE FOR NORTHERN IRELAND AS A MEMBER OF MY GOVERNMENT: AID A SYSTEM OF REGULAR PLEBISCITES ABOUT THE BORDER, THE FIRST TO BE HELD AS SOON AS PRACTICABLE.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7211')
	THE ESSENTIAL MEASURES ON WHICH WE HAVE DECIDED INCLUDE THE TRANSFER OF FULL RESPONSIBILITY FOR LAW AND ORDER FROM STORMONT TO WESTMINISTER: A REVIEW OF ExiSTING INTERNMENT ORDERS SO THAT THE LESS IMPORTANT INTERNEES ARE PROGRESSIVELY RELEASED: THE APPOINTMENT OF A SECRETARY OF STATE FOR NORTHERN IRELAND AS A MEMBER OF MY GOVERNMENT: AID A SYSTEM OF REGULAR PLEBISCITES ABOUT THE BORDER, THE FIRST TO BE HELD AS SOON AS PRACTICABLE. IN THE NEAR FUTURE AND OTHERS AT INTERVALS THEREAFTER.

It was important that the basis on which this action was publicly justified should be that it would provide an opportunity for fresh initiatives to promote political reconciliation and to carry forward the economic development of the Province.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_211')
	It was important that the basis on which this action was publicly justified should be that it would provide an opportunity for fresh initiatives to promote political reconciliation and to carry forward the economic development of the Province.

WAS THAT THE CONSEQUENCES OF THAT FOR THE COMUNITY WOULD BE WORSE THAN THE CONSEQUENCES OF WHAT IS NOW PROPOSED.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_196')
	WAS THAT THE CONSEQUENCES OF THAT FOR THE COMUNITY WOULD BE WORSE THAN THE CONSEQUENCES OF WHAT IS NOW PROPOSED.

Mr Heath said in Edinburgh on 27 arch that the power It had 
often been stated by Stormont spokesmen, he said, that such measures as internment can only be taken if the Joint Security Committee advises it, but Mr Heath said his Government had never been asked to sanction such a measure.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2233')
	of internment lay in the hands of the Northern Ireland Government. 
Mr Heath said in Edinburgh on 27 arch that the power It had 
often been stated by Stormont spokesmen, he said, that such measures as internment can only be taken if the Joint Security Committee advises it, but Mr Heath said his Government had never been asked to sanction such a measure.

Mr McDermott confined the case to whether the arrest by warrant Officer Bullman on the 9th August was lawful under paragraph 10 of the 
Regulations; 
and it is on that basis I trot the matter.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4940')
	Mr McDermott confined the case to whether the arrest by warrant Officer Bullman on the 9th August was lawful under paragraph 10 of the 
Regulations; 
and it is on that basis I trot the matter.

FAULKNER: (BELFAST VIA GNS) 
IN A STATEMENT "IN 
THE PRIME MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND, MR FAULKNER.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5237')
	IN A STATEMENT "IN 
THE PRIME MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND, MR FAULKNER. SAYS AN INTERVIEW IN THE ’WORLD THIS WEEKEND’ ON 
ALLEGATIONS OF ILL TREATMENT OF PERSONS DETAINED UNDER THE SPECIAL POWERS ACT I INADVERTENTLY GAVE THE IMPRESSION BY A SLIP OF THE TONGUE THAT THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE HEADED BY JUDGE BROWN WAS IN SOME WAY CONCERNED WITH SUCH ALLEGATIONS.

7i 
a is not long eunmia to 
affect the situation an the grotad and it bosts the noul aof the terorists if theyeen 
ks capital opt of the inability of the ecurity :roes to hold thee.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1868')
	unless detention ordr a ei made following arrest undor the wpeci.1 P oewrs ct, thouearreoted can beheld for only 43 hourz. 7i 
a is not long eunmia to 
affect the situation an the grotad and it bosts the noul aof the terorists if theyeen 
ks capital opt of the inability of the ecurity :roes to hold thee.

Period of Detention for Interrogation 18. A person arrested under Regulation 10 may be questioned for 48 hours.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_2004')
	A person arrested under Regulation 10 may be questioned for 48 hours. If he is not released by being rearrested under Regulation 11 he may be questioned for a further 24 hours. He must then be released unless a detention order as been made against him.

The original arrest is under After 48 hours 
the man has to be re-arrested under Regulation 11(i) so that he can be detained.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6143')
	Regulation 10 of the Special Powers Act. 
The original arrest is under After 48 hours 
the man has to be re-arrested under Regulation 11(i) so that he can be detained.

a. Deter extremists and their supporters from a campaign of 
violence by (1) 
Selective arrests of those against whom criminal 
charges could be brought or 100 signed, at the most opportune moment.	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1505')
	Deter extremists and their supporters from a campaign of 
violence by (1) 
Selective arrests of those against whom criminal 
charges could be brought or 100 signed, at the most opportune moment.

It will have to be argued that there is a limit to the extent to which any Government is prepared to hand over the investigation of complaints to outside agencies or to demonstrate lack of confidence in the good faith of the properly constituted civil authorites.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_7009')
	It will have to be argued that there is a limit to the extent to which any Government is prepared to hand over the investigation of complaints to outside agencies or to demonstrate lack of confidence in the good faith of the properly constituted civil authorites.

It was agreed that a comprehensive press release setting out the law relating to internment and other pertinent facts should be produced.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6751')
	It was agreed that a comprehensive press release setting out the law relating to internment and other pertinent facts should be produced.

He was satisfied that the introduction of internment had been a major step forward in bringing the poison of terrorism to the surface; the task for the Security Forces was now one of cleaning up, which was bound to take quite a long time but which he was sure could be completed successfully provided that the political situation remained reasonably stable.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5689')
	He was satisfied that the introduction of internment had been a major step forward in bringing the poison of terrorism to the surface; the task for the Security Forces was now one of cleaning up, which was bound to take quite a long time but which he was sure could be completed successfully provided that the political situation remained reasonably stable.

He agreed nevertheless that it would be prudent to have plans ready, should internment have to be resorted to.	('PREM_15_477', 'IMG_5578')
	He agreed nevertheless that it would be prudent to have plans ready, should internment have to be resorted to.

7. AT YESTERDAY’S MEETING, THE SECRETARY Of STATE SAID THAT THERE WAS NO REAL DIFFERENCE BETWEEN HMG AND THE SDLP ON THE ENDING OF INTERNMENT AS AN OBJECTIVE: THE DIFFERENCE WAS ON TIMING, AND, FOR THE REASONS GIVEN BY HIM AT THE PREVIOUS MEETING, IT WAS NOT POSSIBLE EITHER TO END INTERNMENT IMMEDIATELY OR TO GIVE ANY GUARANTEE ABOUT A DATE FOR ITS ENDING, ALTHOUGH THIS WAS KEPT UNDER REVIEW.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7890')
	AT YESTERDAY’S MEETING, THE SECRETARY Of STATE SAID THAT THERE WAS NO REAL DIFFERENCE BETWEEN HMG AND THE SDLP ON THE ENDING OF INTERNMENT AS AN OBJECTIVE: THE DIFFERENCE WAS ON TIMING, AND, FOR THE REASONS GIVEN BY HIM AT THE PREVIOUS MEETING, IT WAS NOT POSSIBLE EITHER TO END INTERNMENT IMMEDIATELY OR TO GIVE ANY GUARANTEE ABOUT A DATE FOR ITS ENDING, ALTHOUGH THIS WAS KEPT UNDER REVIEW.

He agrees that officials should now provide an assessment of what the objective should 
to Mr. Lynch that the problem in Northern Ireland was now not essentially that of improving the civil rights of the minority but of eradicating terrorism and that the continuance of Mr. Faulkner’s Government (and the 
would then 
be.	('PREM_15_486', 'IMG_6444')
	to Mr. Lynch that the problem in Northern Ireland was now not essentially that of improving the civil rights of the minority but of eradicating terrorism and that the continuance of Mr. Faulkner’s Government (and the 
would then 
be. The Prime Minister’s own conception of the purpose of the meeting is as follows. He would explain frankly 
avoidance of something worse) depends largely on solid progress being made on this issue. We 
explain such tougher measures as we might have it in mind to take (for example, on the border and on internment) so that, if and when these measures were taken, Mr. Lynch would understand the background and would be less likely to react adversely.

(ii) Because the Security Forces could no longer 
arrest men on suspicion, but only those who could at once be charged with offences, the supply of tactical intelligence had greatly declined.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_79')
	Because the Security Forces could no longer 
arrest men on suspicion, but only those who could at once be charged with offences, the supply of tactical intelligence had greatly declined.

And, of course, the more recent arrests made under the Special Powers Act have been carried out in what the courts held to be the correct manner.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_5974')
	Since that decision, all the other original arrests have either (as has happened in most cases) been overtaken by internment orders, or 
the arrested 
persons have been released. And, of course, the more recent arrests made under the Special Powers Act have been carried out in what the courts held to be the correct manner.

Fundamentally the ALJ provides the IRA with a platform for spreading lies.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1925')
	Fundamentally the ALJ provides the IRA with a platform for spreading lies. It is a fact that IRA men have standing instructions that, after being in the hands of the security forces, they should make allegations of brutality. As a result of this, a defendant has now only to say his statement was taken under duress to enjoy a very good chance of having it disallowed - an example of the effectiveness of propaganda.

THE MARCHES DUE IN DERRY ON 12 AUGUST AND IN BELFAST AT THE END OF THE MONTH WILL NOT NOW TAKE PLACE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_176')
	THE MARCHES DUE IN DERRY ON 12 AUGUST AND IN BELFAST AT THE END OF THE MONTH WILL NOT NOW TAKE PLACE.

Sinn Fein Intelligence in Internment Camps.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2148')
	Sinn Fein Intelligence in Internment Camps. The system in internment cams was practically confined to counter espionage.

However, as long as active terrorism persists and 
bombing and shooting continues, HMG must retain the power to arrest and intern those whom there is good reason to believe are actively involved.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7253')
	However, as long as active terrorism persists and 
bombing and shooting continues, HMG must retain the power to arrest and intern those whom there is good reason to believe are actively involved.

The Special Powers Regulations provide for the setting up of an 
Advisory Committee to consider representations from internees.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5591')
	The Special Powers Regulations provide for the setting up of an 
Advisory Committee to consider representations from internees. His Honour 
Judge Brown has agreed to act as Chairman of this Committee.

IF THE MEASURES WHICH WE HAVE TAKEN LEAD, AS WE HOPE THEY WILL, TO A REDUCTION IN TERRORIST ACTIVITY, IT WILL BE POSSIBLE TO CONSIDER FURTHER RELEASES: BUT THIS MUST OF COURSE DEPEND ON A CLEARLY ESTABLISHED IMPROVEMENT IN THE SECURITY SITUATION.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7209')
	IF THE MEASURES WHICH WE HAVE TAKEN LEAD, AS WE HOPE THEY WILL, TO A REDUCTION IN TERRORIST ACTIVITY, IT WILL BE POSSIBLE TO CONSIDER FURTHER RELEASES: BUT THIS MUST OF COURSE DEPEND ON A CLEARLY ESTABLISHED IMPROVEMENT IN THE SECURITY SITUATION.

For our part, we made it clear that there could be no question of our accepting internment, an instructing our forces to help to implement it, if it was riot accompanied by a complete ban on marhes and parades of all kinds; and we have made clear our present view that that ban will need to remain in force as long as internment lasts, though the extension after six months remains formally open for discussion.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2193')
	For our part, we made it clear that there could be no question of our accepting internment, an instructing our forces to help to implement it, if it was riot accompanied by a complete ban on marhes and parades of all kinds; and we have made clear our present view that that ban will need to remain in force as long as internment lasts,

8. Paragraph 3 of the memorandum emphasises the importance of 
reintroducing "searches, arrests, interrogation and some method of keeping suspects in custody if there is insufficient evidence to convict them in a court". This raises additional questions, of a rather different kind:(d) The scale of interrogation and the willingness of the RUC Special Branch to conduct it.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7796')
	Paragraph 3 of the memorandum emphasises the importance of 
reintroducing "searches, arrests, interrogation and some method of keeping suspects in custody if there is insufficient evidence to convict them in a court".

3. 
The Army would prefer to make a further amendment to the amendment which 
you proposed at the meeting and they now wish paragraph 7(e) to read as follows: "Other terrorists who are known on the strength of reliable 
intelligence, to be an exceptionally serious threat to security, and for whom, in the absence of evidence which could form the basis of a criminal charge, a strong case could be made for an interim custody order.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1804')
	"Other terrorists who are known on the strength of reliable 
intelligence, to be an exceptionally serious threat to security, and for whom, in the absence of evidence which could form the basis of a criminal charge, a strong case could be made for an interim custody order. The persons and categories to whom this applies will be specified from time to time."

No responsible government could take such an unjustifiable risk with the lives of soldiers and policemen and loyal citizens generally.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6634')
	So how can one possibly bring internment to a sudden end against that background? No responsible government could take such an unjustifiable risk with the lives of soldiers and policemen and loyal citizens generally.

What further evidence can one possibly need of intimidation?	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6634')
	And this was by no means an isolated example; there have been frequent reports to show what the IRA do to people who talk. What further evidence can one possibly need of intimidation?

required to be increased to 15 battalions this requirement might arise in the circumstances, or as a result of the circumstances in which internment was authorised. 
12. The advantages of using any such camp would be: a. 
very quickly; b. 
c. d. the camps are already in being and could be improved 
proximity of other military facilities and units; security arrangements could be strengthened to receive 
internees under cover of providing measures to provide greater military preparedness; 
alternative use for either military accommodation or internment would be cost-effective	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2296')
	hese camps are earmarked as accommodation for reinforcing units. All would be needed if force levels in the Province were. 
required to be increased to 15 battalions this requirement might arise in the circumstances, or as a result of the circumstances in which internment was authorised. 
12. The advantages of using any such camp would be: a. 
very quickly; b. 
c. d. the camps are already in being and could be improved 
proximity of other military facilities and units; security arrangements could be strengthened to receive 
internees under cover of providing measures to provide greater military preparedness;

ElGERS WERE READY TO BE COiV I CED BY OUR ARGUMEIITS.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5852')
	FU^THE".ORE, THE PROLE VAS THEN O DE O:ISTRABLY ONE OF DOMESTIC AFFAIR, (ARTICLE 2(7) OF THE CHARTER) THAT MOST OF THE MORE LEGAL! IC .ElGERS WERE READY TO BE COiV I CED BY OUR ARGUMEIITS.

MY GUIDANCE YOU CAN GIVE US ON THIS POINT, AND PARTICULARLY THAT WHICH REFLECTS MR HOWARD SMITH’S ASSESSMENT ST HELPFUL. 
, WOULD BE - AND THEY ARE NUMEROUS - WHO FULLY	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5755')
	- AND THEY ARE NUMEROUS - WHO FULLY

5. 
us that he had come to the conclusion that internment was now the right and indeed inevitable course. 
The latest	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_185')
	us that he had come to the conclusion that internment was now the right and indeed inevitable course. 
The latest

bringing out the general state of intelligence before interrogation was used and the improvement that has been achieved since.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5073')
	But the Co-ordinator does not propose to say too much himself in thi preliminary briefing about the results obtained from interrogation in Northern Ireland because he thinks that this will come most 
effectively from the GOC, Northern Ireland, who can brief the Committee on the overall military situation in Northern Ireland as it was before the introduction of internment and as it is now, bringing out the general state of intelligence before interrogation was used and the improvement that has been achieved since.

The power to intern is much criticised and is inconsistent with the European human Rights Convention but in the course of the I.R.A.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2298')
	in the course of the I.R.A. activities of 1956-62 a notice of derogation was in 1957 lodged in Strasbourg.

A statement would be released to the press explaining that the action had been taken in the light of the new situation in which the security forces were dominating the areas where the IRA had operated in the past.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7951')
	A statement would be released to the press explaining that the action had been taken in the light of the new situation in which the security forces were dominating the areas where the IRA had operated in the past. He would consider further, in the light of the security situation, what the SDLP had said.

McAuley’s father, who is an internee at Long esh, was allowed out on parole for the funeral he had not reported back by 4 p.m.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6736')
	McAuley’s father, who is an internee at Long esh, was allowed out on parole for the funeral he had not reported back by 4 p.m.

If so, 
this should be brought but in order to answer the argument that internment has made the security situation worse.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5759')
	I think it 
is important to recall the position 
before internment was introduced, which I believe can be shown to have been one in which violence was already escalating very rapidly. 
If so, 
this should be brought but in order to answer the argument that internment has made the security situation worse.

8 AUGUST 
I AM SENDING YOU THIS MESSAGE TO LET YOU KNOW THAT THE PRIME MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND WILL VERY SHORTLY BE ANNOUNCING THAT, IN THE LIGHT OF THE LATEST ASSESSMENT OF THE SECURITY SITUATION IN NORTHERN IRELAND AND ALL OTHER RELEVANT FACTORS,, AND AFTER CONSULTATION WITH THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT, THE NORTHERN IRELAND GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED TO ACTIVATE ITS POWERS OF INTERNMENT.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_175')
	I AM SENDING YOU THIS MESSAGE TO LET YOU KNOW THAT THE PRIME MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND WILL VERY SHORTLY BE ANNOUNCING THAT, IN THE LIGHT OF THE LATEST ASSESSMENT OF THE SECURITY SITUATION IN NORTHERN IRELAND AND ALL OTHER RELEVANT FACTORS,, AND AFTER CONSULTATION WITH THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT, THE NORTHERN IRELAND GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED TO ACTIVATE ITS POWERS OF INTERNMENT.

And in any case could not that sentence be phrased the other way round 
as these difficulties are removed the Government will be able to begin 9. 
- i. e. "As soon You will wish to consider whether the upshot of the discussion should 
be reported to the Cabinet which is to follow - especially if the Secretary of State’s statement is to be released later in the day. 
20th September, 1972	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8063')
	And in any case could not that sentence be phrased the other way round 
as these difficulties are removed the Government will be able to begin 9. 
- i. e. "As soon

were not used for internees, it could be used for quartering soldiers. 
It would take 4 or 5 months If it	('PREM_15_477', 'IMG_5578')
	were not used for internees, it could be used for quartering soldiers.

As you know, although the main Protestant parades of July 
passed off without giving rise to any serious incidents, there has been a significant worsening in recent weeks in the amount and nature of terrorist activity in Northern Ireland, with frequent bomb attacks on an increasing scale and also the outbreaks of extremely vicious street fighting in Londonderry where there had previously been very little trouble for many months.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_255')
	As you know, although the main Protestant parades of July 
passed off without giving rise to any serious incidents, there has been a significant worsening in recent weeks in the amount and nature of terrorist activity in Northern Ireland, with frequent bomb attacks on an increasing scale and also the outbreaks of extremely vicious street fighting in Londonderry where there had previously been very little trouble for many months. This activity is clearly the work of the IRA; and the GOC has confirmed that the signs are that this body is getting better organised and more efficient in its methods. Earlier this week the GOC reported to the Defence Secretary, and also to the Home Secretary, that renewed pressure was building up within Mr. Faulkner’s Government for firm action against the IRA; and Mr. Faulkner has himself been in touch with the Home Secretary to suggest that the time may have come to think again about internment.

The Secretary of State said that he could not risk ending internment without an end of violence.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7662')
	The Secretary of State said that he could not risk ending internment without an end of violence. If major acts of terrorism took place after the ending of internment his position would be impossible. If there were a genuine end of terrorism,even for a limited period, there would be a genuine response from the Governmentand,subject to consultations with his colleagues, he did not rule out the ending of internment in these circumstances.

allegation had the opportunity of putting the issue before the Tribunal.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5605')
	allegation had the opportunity of putting the issue before the Tribunal.

During the same period, the law enforcement authorities in acting vigorously under the ordinary processes of the criminal law have achieved considerable success; 370 persons have been charged with offences connected with terrorist activities.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8056')
	HM Government reaffirms these objectives and its determination to use normal processes of the law to the fullest possible extent in dealing with terrorism. 
In pursuit of those objectives, 
since 30 March 1972, 724 persons have been released from internment or detention: 171 persons are still interned and 70 persons are held in detention. During the same period, the law enforcement authorities in acting vigorously under the ordinary processes of the criminal law have achieved considerable success; 370 persons have been charged with offences connected with terrorist activities.

THAT IS HIS JUDGEMENT OF THE SITUATION, AND OF COURSE THE FOR OUR PART, WE MADE IT CLEAR THAT THERE COULD BE NO 
QUESTION OF OUR ACCEPTING INTERNMENT, AND INSTRUCTING OUR SOURCES TO HELP TO IMPLEMENT IT, IF IT WAS NOT ACCOMPANIED BY A COMPLETE BAN ON MARCHES AND PARADES OF ALL KINDS: AND WE HAVE MADE CLEAR OUR PRESENT VIEW THAT THAT BAN WILL NEED TO REMAIN IN FORCE FOR LONGER THAN SIX MONTHS THOUGH THE EXTENTION BEYOND SIX MONTHS REMAINS FORMALLY OPEN FOR DISCUSSION.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	DECISION IS HIS, THOUGH HE HAS REACHED IT AFTER CONSULTATION WITH US. 
THAT IS HIS JUDGEMENT OF THE SITUATION, AND OF COURSE THE FOR OUR PART, WE MADE IT CLEAR THAT THERE COULD BE NO 
QUESTION OF OUR ACCEPTING INTERNMENT, AND INSTRUCTING OUR SOURCES TO HELP TO IMPLEMENT IT, IF IT WAS NOT ACCOMPANIED BY A COMPLETE BAN ON MARCHES AND PARADES OF ALL KINDS: AND WE HAVE MADE CLEAR OUR PRESENT VIEW THAT THAT BAN WILL NEED TO REMAIN IN FORCE FOR LONGER THAN SIX MONTHS THOUGH THE EXTENTION BEYOND SIX MONTHS REMAINS FORMALLY OPEN FOR DISCUSSION.

Mr. Callaghan told the Northern Ireland Government that we would send a note of our views. No note has been sent, but at official level our view is that it would be better to repeal the Acts altogether and start afresh with a new Act enabling Regulations to be made on a proclamation of emergency; that there should be no new permanent offences against the State of the kind the Northern Ireland Government contemplate on the ground that we do not have provisions of that kind here and that they have very little practical utility	('PREM_15_101', 'IMG_4742')
	at official level our view is that it would be better to repeal the Acts altogether and start afresh with a new Act enabling Regulations to be made on a proclamation of emergency;

3. 
Every means has been tried to make terrorists amenable to 
the law.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2162')
	Every means has been tried to make terrorists amenable to 
the law. Nor have such methods been without success, because a substantial number of the most prominent leaders of the IRA are now serving ordinary prison sentences. But the terrorist campaign continues at an unacceptable level, and I have had to conclude that the ordinary law cannot deal comprehensively or quickly enough with such ruthless viciousness.

10. OUR HOPE S THAT THESE MEASURES CAN BE STRICTl Y TEMPORARY, WILL SERVE TO REESTABLISH A SITUATION IN WHICH THE MANY SOCIAL.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	OUR HOPE S THAT THESE MEASURES CAN BE STRICTl Y TEMPORARY, WILL SERVE TO REESTABLISH A SITUATION IN WHICH THE MANY SOCIAL. 
AND OTHER REFORMS THAT HAVE BEEN INTRODUCED AND ARE STILL TO COME ARE RECOGNISED AT THEIR TRUE VALUE, AND WILL NOT PREJUDICE CONTINUING PROGRESS ON THE TASK OF BUILDING MORE HARMONIOUS INTER-COMMUNITY RELATIONS IN NORTHERN IRELAND.

Since the claim would be made for reasons of security, it needs the approval not only of the Attorney General (which is being sought concurrently by the Treasury Solicitor) but also of the Prime Minister, before the Secretary of State can sign the necessary certificate.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_5974')
	In connection with a civil action which is being brought 
in the Northern Ireland courts against the RUC and the Ministry of Defence, as a result of the arrests made on 9th August, we consider it necessary to claim Crown Privilege for some of the documents which would otherwise have to be disclosed in the action. Since the claim would be made for reasons of security, it needs the approval not only of the Attorney General (which is being sought concurrently by the Treasury Solicitor) but also of the Prime Minister, before the Secretary of State can sign the necessary certificate.

37 OF 15 AUGUST TO HOME OFFICE FOR PERMANENT UNDER-SECRETARY 
MY IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING TELEGRAM: FOLLOWING IS TEXT OF RE-DRAFT: 1. 
Political progress can only be impeded so long as 
violence and intimidation continue: and the purpose of internment, and of the army’s measures which are directed impartially at violence from whatever quarter, is to restore to Northern Ireland the necessary degree of stability for further political advance.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5894')
	Political progress can only be impeded so long as 
violence and intimidation continue: and the purpose of internment, and of the army’s measures which are directed impartially at violence from whatever quarter, is to restore to Northern Ireland the necessary degree of stability for further political advance.

against extremists of both communities to restore law and order, to put an end to intersectarian violence, and to administer a shock in the hope of forcing both factions to realise the necessity of an agreed political solution.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_6')
	against extremists of both communities to restore law and order, to put an end to intersectarian violence, and to administer a shock in the hope of forcing both factions to realise the necessity of an agreed political solution.

The Attorney General and Mr Dalton only confirm our view however that the alternative of beinging the men to trial is not the answer. 
4th November 1971	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6306')
	The Attorney General and Mr Dalton only confirm our view however that the alternative of beinging the men to trial is not the answer.

BUT WE HAVE MADE IT CLEAR TO FAULKNER THAT THERE COULD BE NO QUESTION OF OUR ACCEPTING INTERNMENT, AND INSTRUCTING OUR FORCES TO HELP TO IMPLEMENT IT, IF IT WAS NOT ACCOMPANIED BY A COMPLETE BAN ON MARCHES AND PARADES OF ALL KINDS: AND WE HAVE MADE CLEAR OUR PRESENT VIEW THAT THE BAN WILL NEED TO REMAIN IN FORCE FOR LONGER THAN SIX MONTHS, ALTHOUGH THE EXTENSION AFTER SIX MONTHS REMAINS FORMALLY OPEN FOR DISCUSSION.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_180')
	BUT WE HAVE MADE IT CLEAR TO FAULKNER THAT THERE COULD BE NO QUESTION OF OUR ACCEPTING INTERNMENT, AND INSTRUCTING OUR FORCES TO HELP TO IMPLEMENT IT, IF IT WAS NOT ACCOMPANIED BY A COMPLETE BAN ON MARCHES AND PARADES OF ALL KINDS: AND WE HAVE MADE CLEAR OUR PRESENT VIEW THAT THE BAN WILL NEED TO REMAIN IN FORCE FOR LONGER THAN SIX MONTHS, ALTHOUGH THE EXTENSION AFTER SIX MONTHS REMAINS FORMALLY OPEN FOR DISCUSSION

Our normal practice has been to pass information on On this occasion however security considerations are 
not significant in the same way as they were for, e.g.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8179')
	On this occasion however security considerations are 
not significant in the same way as they were for, e.g. the start of Operation Motorman or the introduction of internment.

But once the violence had genuinely ended a new situation would arise when a number of other issues, including internment, the ’no go’ areas and civil disobedience, would need to be discussed.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7656')
	But once the violence had genuinely ended a new situation would arise when a number of other issues, including internment, the ’no go’ areas and civil disobedience, would need to be discussed.

Intelligence improves and hence arrest of key terrorists and recovery of arms parallels this progress.	('DEFE_13_1358', 'IMG_9725')
	Intelligence improves and hence arrest of key terrorists and recovery of arms parallels this progress.

Under Regulation 11 (6) of the 
Special Powers Act, if any person assists or connives at the escape of any person in custody under that Regulation, or knowingly harbours or assists any person who has so escaped, he is guilty of an offence under the Regulations.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2180')
	Under Regulation 11 (6) of the 
Special Powers Act, if any person assists or connives at the escape of any person in custody under that Regulation, or knowingly harbours or assists any person who has so escaped, he is guilty of an offence under the Regulations

He re-itera 
that if he is advised by his security advisers that internment is necessary, he is prepared to intern.	('PREM_15_474', 'IMG_5327')
	He re-itera 
that if he is advised by his security advisers that internment is necessary, he is prepared to intern.

He spoke harshly both of Mr Lynch, whose attempts at interference he deplored and of Mr Wilson for his statements on internment (see HONIP(71) 34 paragraph 2). He also said he would oppose any move for allowing what he described as declared enemies of the constitution to sit in the Cabinet.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5631')
	Mr West, the Minister for Agriculture and the most right wing 
member of Mr Faulkner’s Cabinet, said in a radio interview on 29 August that he was satisfied with Mr Faulkner’s policies at the moment. He thought Mr Paisley had recently made errors of judgement which had reduced Mr Paisley’s support. He spoke harshly both of Mr Lynch, whose attempts at interference he deplored and of Mr Wilson for his statements on internment (see HONIP(71) 34 paragraph 2).

SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF THE RELEASE OF INTERNEES (JOINT ARMY/RUC PAPER FOR CONSIDERATION BY JSC) INTRODUCTION 1. IN VIEW OF SPECULATION ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY OF MODIFYING THE INTERNMENT PROCESS AS PART OF A POLITICAL REQUIREMENT, THERE IS A NEED TO SET OUT THE SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF A RELEASE OF INTERNEES, OTHER THAN THROUGH THE EXISTING MACHINERY.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6772')
	N VIEW OF SPECULATION ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY OF MODIFYING THE INTERNMENT PROCESS AS PART OF A POLITICAL REQUIREMENT, THERE IS A NEED TO SET OUT THE SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF A RELEASE OF INTERNEES, OTHER THAN THROUGH THE EXISTING MACHINERY.

situation by the means employed Faulkner’s 
judgment was that the consequences of that for the community would be worse than the consequences of what is now proposed.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_205')
	Faulkner’s 
judgment was that the consequences of that for the community would be worse than the consequences of what is now proposed.

In an ideal society, a person arrested would be taken straight to an RUC Station and treated within the strict application of the judges’ 
rules.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1932')
	In an ideal society, a person arrested would be taken straight to an RUC Station and treated within the strict application of the judges’ 
rules. 
But Northern Ireland was far from an ideal society, indeed a state of war existed here. The judges’ rules were simply not compatible with the gaining of intelligence.

THESE OPERATIONS ARE THUS A NECESSARY PRELUDE TO THE RESTORATION OF GREATER HARMONY BETWEEN THE COMMUNITIES IN NORTHERN IRELAND.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5860')
	THESE OPERATIONS ARE THUS A NECESSARY PRELUDE TO THE RESTORATION OF GREATER HARMONY BETWEEN THE COMMUNITIES IN NORTHERN IRELAND.

The latest complete figures for those arrested in Northern Ireland under the Special Powers Acts are as follows.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6681')
	The latest complete figures for those arrested in Northern Ireland under the Special Powers Acts are as follows.

e are now acting to remove the I appeal to yo 
to come out and join us in building this community up again: not to restore it simply to what it was, for many of us in the past have failed each other, but to build it on better, sounder and stronger lines.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_53')
	e are now acting to remove the I appeal to yo 
to come out and join us in building this community up again: not to restore it simply to what it was, for many of us in the past have failed each other, but to build it on better, sounder and stronger lines.

DRAFT STATEMENT ON NORTHERN IRELAND POLITICAL PROGRESS IN NORTHERN IRELAND iS BOUND TO 
IMPEDED SO LONG AS VIOLENCE AND INTIMIDATION CONTINUE: AND THE PURPOSE OF.	('PREM_15_486', 'IMG_6394')
	POLITICAL PROGRESS IN NORTHERN IRELAND iS BOUND TO 
IMPEDED SO LONG AS VIOLENCE AND INTIMIDATION CONTINUE: AND THE PURPOSE OF. INTERNMENT, AND OF THE ARMY’S MEASURES WHICH ARE DIRECTED IMPARTIALLY AT VIOLENCE FROM WHATEVER QUARTER, IS TO RESTORE TO NORTHERN IRELAND THE NECESSARY DEGREE OF STABILITY FOR FURTHER POLITICAL ADVANCE.

Conditions which might be acceptable for a 
very short term detention might not be acceptable if internment went on for a long period. 
The legal status of internees would be no better than 
that of convicted prisoners (under the Special Powers Act it is conceivable that they might be worse); 
The numbers to be interned could amount to as many as	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2293')
	The legal status of internees would be no better than 
that of convicted prisoners (under the Special Powers Act it is conceivable that they might be worse);

n 1. As persons detained in pursuance of Regulation 18B are 
.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6314')
	1. As persons detained in pursuance of Regulation 18B are 
.so. detained for custodial purposes only and not for any punifive purpose, the conditions of their confinement will be as little as possible oppressive, due regard being had to the necessity of ensuring safe custody and maintaining order and good behaviour.

They should also ask the Secretary of State whether he has any immediate proposals in respect of individuals whom it might be desirable to detain for an extended period, either for interrogation or otherwise.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7924')
	They should also ask the Secretary of State whether he has any immediate proposals in respect of individuals whom it might be desirable to detain for an extended period, either for interrogation or otherwise.

6. 
The use of a naval vessel raises the following problems: a. 
any ship chosen would need a suitable alongside berth 
with power supplies and other essential services from ashore Only in Belfast,	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2294')
	Only in Belfast, where security problems are likely to be especially difficult, is this degree of support likely to be available;

5. 
When Faulkner came to London last week, he told 
us that he had come to the conclusion that interment was now the right and indeed inevitable course.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_198')
	When Faulkner came to London last week, he told 
us that he had come to the conclusion that interment was now the right and indeed inevitable course.

escalate their campaign have made it impossible for him to resist the pressures on him, not only from his political supporters but from the business community and others whos lives are being disrupted, for more drastic action.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2193')
	escalate their campaign have made it impossible for him to resist the pressures on him, not only from his political supporters but from the business community and others whos lives are being disrupted, for more drastic action.

12. It should be added that: 
(a) to authenticate the cover story,	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2256')
	(a) to authenticate the cover story, it is essential that the camp should be seen to be performing its secondary role; it will therefore need to be occupied, as much as possible, by British troops;

9. 
If the measures which Her Majesty’s Government have taken lead, 
as is hopedthey will, to a reduction in terrorist activity, it will be possible to consider further releases; but this must of course depend on a clearly established improvement in the security situation.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7214')
	If the measures which Her Majesty’s Government have taken lead, 
as is hopedthey will, to a reduction in terrorist activity, it will be possible to consider further releases; but this must of course depend on a clearly established improvement in the security situation.

this proposal: 
I want the Government, therefore, to consider They should announce their willingness 
to carry through a policy to end imprisonment without trial, by a phased programme of releases of every detainee and internee except those against whom criminal charges are preferred in the Courts.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6915')
	They should announce their willingness 
to carry through a policy to end imprisonment without trial, by a phased programme of releases of every detainee and internee except those against whom criminal charges are preferred in the Courts.

defeat - anduiiitc to defoa -those v io.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_54')
	defeat - anduiiitc to defoa -those v io.ent non 1;ho scek 
to divide uo.

d. Where a breach of the peace is not committed, but the 
conduct of the pickets is intimidatory, they should be arrested only if there is no other way to get them to desist.	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1724')
	Where a breach of the peace is not committed, but the 
conduct of the pickets is intimidatory, they should be arrested only if there is no other way to get them to desist. In these circumstances the power of arrest to be used is SPA Regulation 11, in accordance with the Blue Card. The words to be used are: "I suspect you of being about to commit (or of committing) acts prejudicial to the peace".

possible, I see little profit in trying to find any other way round the impasse.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2257')
	possible

The Government has introduced internment solely for the protection 
of the citizens of Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5592')
	The Government has introduced internment solely for the protection 
of the citizens of Northern Ireland.

JUDGE BROWN’S COMMITTEE 12. An appeal committee to hear applications from internees is mandatory under the existing regulations.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7165')
	JUDGE BROWN’S COMMITTEE 12. An appeal committee to hear applications from internees is mandatory under the existing regulations.

Regulation 12 provides for internment.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7202')
	Regulation 10 empowers the RUC be arrest and hold for up to 48 hours any person in order to question them. The initial arrests in the internment exercise have been under this power. Regulation 11 allows the detention of persons without trial for an unspecified period on the order of the Civil Authority. Those initially arrested under Regulation 10 since internment began have been held under this regulation after 48 hours but before internment. Regulation 12 provides for internment.

WE SHOULD LIKE YOU TO MAKE THE POINT THAT ’’BRIEFING REGARDING THE SITUATION PERTAINING NORTHERN IRELAND’’ SHOULD CONSTITUTIONALLY REACH THE SECRETARYGENERAL FROM THE UK MISSION ONLY AND THAT ANY INFORMAL DISCUSSION HE MAY HAVE WITH ANOTHER MISSION ON THE SUBJECT SHOULD NOT BE REFERRED TO IN A PUBLIC STATEMENT. 
DOUGLAS-HOME 
WED UND GIPD 
N AM D NEWS D SIR T BRIMELOW MR PARSONS 
[COPIES SENT TO NO 10 DOWNING STREET]	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5732')
	WE SHOULD LIKE YOU TO MAKE THE POINT THAT ’’BRIEFING REGARDING THE SITUATION PERTAINING NORTHERN IRELAND’’ SHOULD CONSTITUTIONALLY REACH THE SECRETARYGENERAL FROM THE UK MISSION ONLY AND THAT ANY INFORMAL DISCUSSION HE MAY HAVE WITH ANOTHER MISSION ON THE SUBJECT SHOULD NOT BE REFERRED TO IN A PUBLIC STATEMENT.

Clearly the effectiveness of internment in Northern Ireland could have been increased if you had felt able to take similar measures on your side of the border. But I judged from our Ambassador’s report of his recent talk with you that’ there was no prospect of that, and I could not there-	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2193')
	Clearly the effectiveness of internment in Northern Ireland could have been increased if you had felt able to take similar measures on your side of the border. But I judged from our Ambassador’s report of his recent talk with you that’ there was no prospect of that

Typically, 
he did not even know that the list existed!).	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5707')
	Play down the prospect of further internment. (In this connection I 
have told Sir Harold Black that, while we are not asking the Government of Northern Ireland to stop pulling people in, they should keep very quiet about the existence of a further list with as many as 200 names on it. 
Typically, 
he did not even know that the list existed!).

How far is internment to be brought into the political package?	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6703')
	The transfer of law and order except on the narrowest interpretation (and there are a number of gradations) would involve us in responsibility for internment. How far is internment to be brought into the political package?

Other detainees have been released 
on the direction of the Atto rney-General, or their cases are still under consideration.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5588')
	Since 9th August persons have been detained under Orders made by me as Civil Authority under the Special Powers Act. 
I have now made Orders interning 219 of these persons. Other detainees have been released 
on the direction of the Atto rney-General, or their cases are still under consideration.

a the subject of internment the S3eretary of State reiterated that it 
vas the policy of Her Mujesty’s Governent to endinaternaent as soon as the escurity situation allowed.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7904')
	a the subject of internment the S3eretary of State reiterated that it 
vas the policy of Her Mujesty’s Governent to endinaternaent as soon as the escurity situation allowed.

would conclude by saying, in the appropriate legal language, that the DPP had examined all the files relating to offences committed during the late troubles, and had concluded that the evidence available was insufficient to warrant proceedings, against anyone "save those listed above", and that the RUC had therefore closed all other files.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1907')
	would conclude by saying, in the appropriate legal language, that the DPP had examined all the files relating to offences committed during the late troubles, and had concluded that the evidence available was insufficient to warrant proceedings, against anyone "save those listed above", and that the RUC had therefore closed all other files.

of internment lay in the hands of the Northern Ireland Government.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2233')
	of internment lay in the hands of the Northern Ireland Government. 
Mr Heath said in Edinburgh on 27 arch that the power It had 
often been stated by Stormont spokesmen, he said, that such measures as internment can only be taken if the Joint Security Committee advises it, but Mr Heath said his Government had never been asked to sanction such a measure.

Nor is it in any way punitive or indiscriminate.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2163')
	This is not action taken against any responsible and law- 
abiding section of the community. Nor is it in any way punitive or indiscriminate.

The Northern Ireland Government were advised that we presume that the 
statue of internees and internal regulations will be dealt with under the Special Powers Acts, particularly Regulations 12 and 13. 
Ireland Government pursuing this line and if so, what progress has been made?	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2227')
	The Northern Ireland Government were advised that we presume that the 
statue of internees and internal regulations will be dealt with under the Special Powers Acts, particularly Regulations 12 and 13. 
Ireland Government pursuing this line and if so, what progress has been

3. THE DISCUSSION IN JSC MOVED ON TO A SUGGESTION BY BLOOMFIELD THAT THERE SHOULD BE A PUBLIC STATEMENT WHICH WOULD BE DESIGNED TO CLEAR UP SOME MISCONCEPTIONS ABOUT INTERNMENT EG THE LEGAL BASIS FOR IT AND THE RIGHT OF INTERNEES TO SECURE LEGAL ADVICE IN PRESENTING THEMSELVES TO JUDGE BROWN’S COMMITTEE.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6773')
	THE DISCUSSION IN JSC MOVED ON TO A SUGGESTION BY BLOOMFIELD THAT THERE SHOULD BE A PUBLIC STATEMENT WHICH WOULD BE DESIGNED TO CLEAR UP SOME MISCONCEPTIONS ABOUT INTERNMENT EG THE LEGAL BASIS FOR IT AND THE RIGHT OF INTERNEES TO SECURE LEGAL ADVICE IN PRESENTING THEMSELVES TO JUDGE BROWN’S COMMITTEE.

The Prime Minister said that the need was not Large numbers 
The Prime Minister thanked Lord Parker 
for his willingness to undertake the Inquiry.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5080')
	of persons on the wanted list were now being detained and it was not possible to foresee how soon the time would come when Ministers had to consider whether they could authorise further interrogation in depth. 
The Prime Minister said that the need was not Large numbers

IF THIS MOVE ENABLE US TO REDUCE THE NUMBER OF TROOPS COMMITTED TO NORTHERN IRELAND EARLIER THAN WE COULD OTHERWISE HAVE DONE, THAT WILL BE A WELCOME CONSEQUENCE OF IT.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_180')
	IF THIS MOVE ENABLE US TO REDUCE THE NUMBER OF TROOPS COMMITTED TO NORTHERN IRELAND EARLIER THAN WE COULD OTHERWISE HAVE DONE, THAT WILL BE A WELCOME CONSEQUENCE OF IT.

2 Provisional IRA officers were rrosted: D Coy 1 Provo) and 
(Coy Comd (Finance officer, F Coy 1 Provo). In 
Andersonstown 2 Rifles wore found in a garage behind the house of (volunteer A Coy 1\ Provo) currently detained in Long Kesh.	('PREM_15_1016', 'IMG_8637')
	In 
Andersonstown 2 Rifles wore found in a garage behind the house of (volunteer A Coy 1\ Provo) currently detained in Long Kesh.

As regards the "hard core" who cannot be released, the Secretary of State proposes that, pending the creation of the special courts, the individuals concerned should continue to be detained under Regulation 11, subject to review by a "special interim body". The Secretary of State recognises that this may be unacceptable to the SDLP, who may withdraw from the projected conference as a result.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8109')
	As regards the "hard core" who cannot be released, the Secretary of State proposes that, pending the creation of the special courts, the individuals concerned should continue to be detained under Regulation 11, subject to review by a "special interim body".

For this purpose it is proposed to give as much publicity as possible 
to a general defence of the policy and to the correcting of some of the grosser forms of misrepresentation to which it has been subjected.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6968')
	The need for internment to continue may have to be spelt out more effectively. For this purpose it is proposed to give as much publicity as possible 
to a general defence of the policy and to the correcting of some of the grosser forms of misrepresentation to which it has been subjected.

6. 
That is his judgment of the situation, and of course 
the decision is his, though he has reached it after consultation with us.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_186')
	That is his judgment of the situation, and of course 
the decision is his, though he has reached it after consultation with us.

It would be primarily a political decision whether to 
bring in internment, but it would depend very much on military advice.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_255')
	It would be primarily a political decision whether to 
bring in internment, but it would depend very much on military advice.

The Committee’s 
main function will be to assess whether or when the internee’s release can be safely permitted and, where appropriate, the Committee will consider whether or not they can accept any undertaking on his part that he will not engage in violence on his release."	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6842')
	"The Special Powers Regulations provide for the setting up of an Advisory Committee to consider representations from internees. 
His Honour 
Judge Brown nas agreed to act as Chairman of this Committee 
............ The Committee’s 
main function will be to assess whether or when the internee’s release can be safely permitted and, where appropriate, the Committee will consider whether or not they can accept any undertaking on his part that he will not engage in violence on his release."

Message to the Pope on Internment The Foreign and Commonwealth Secretary and the Secretary of 
State for Northern Ireland agree (as does Tom Bridges) that it will be helpful for you to send a further message to the Pope explaining the present position on "internment" - as he persists in calling it and expressing the hope that the Pope will be able to make a public and welcoming reference to the White Paper.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9316')
	The Foreign and Commonwealth Secretary and the Secretary of 
State for Northern Ireland agree (as does Tom Bridges) that it will be helpful for you to send a further message to the Pope explaining the present position on "internment" - as he persists in calling it and expressing the hope that the Pope will be able to make a public and welcoming reference to the White Paper

These powers apply essentially to the apprehension of a wrongdoer red-handed, whereas the powers under Regulation 11 entitle a soldier to arrest on suspicion.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1894')
	If, in an exceptional case, it is not possible for a member of the RUC 
to carry out an arrest, the soldier may still use Regulation 11 under the SPA if a criminal offence has been committed but there is doubt whether common and statute law powers of arrest apply. These powers apply essentially to the apprehension of a wrongdoer red-handed, whereas the powers under Regulation 11 entitle a soldier to arrest on suspicion.

There is also the fact that the intimidation 
of the population by the terrorists has been increasingly hampering the process of gathering intelligence 6. 
The decision is, of course, Faulkner’s, since the 
powers under which these measures are taken are powers of the Northern Ireland Government.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_205')
	The decision is, of course, Faulkner’s, since the 
powers under which these measures are taken are powers of the Northern Ireland Government.

The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom said that, 
if it was judged that the problem was now one of dealing with a hard core of IRA terrorism, the time had perhaps come to reconsider the strategy for the security forces. At present the security forces had to fight the IRA on	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4847')
	The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom said that, 
if it was judged that the problem was now one of dealing with a hard core of IRA terrorism, the time had perhaps come to reconsider the strategy for the security forces.

You should know that the principle of 
equality of treatment for everyone in Northern Ireland irrespective of political views or religion is the accepted policy of the Governments of the United Kingdom and of Northern Ireland and is being fully implemented.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5863')
	You should know that the principle of 
equality of treatment for everyone in Northern Ireland irrespective of political views or religion is the accepted policy of the Governments of the United Kingdom and of Northern Ireland and is being fully implemented.

Nevertheless, certain basic problems of countering terrorism by the normal processes of law still present difficulties.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8056')
	Nevertheless, certain basic problems of countering terrorism by the normal processes of law still present difficulties. These include the problem of preventing the intimidation of witnesses who may be in danger of their lives if they give evidence in court; the problem of arresting and bringing to trial many of those who, although responsible for organising and directing terrorism themselves take care to avoid so far as possible engaging in terrorist operations of a criminal character. Until these and other problems in this field can be solved, it is not

IS STILL BEING PURSUED. 
THE POINT ABOUT RIFLE CLUBS 
HE RATES HIGH THE RISK OF LEAKAGE HOME 
WE HAVE SAID THAT WE	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_194')
	FAULKNER HAS CONFIRMED AGREEMENT WITH YOUR CONDITIONS 
ON BANNING PARADES AND MARCHES. IS STILL BEING PURSUED. 
THE POINT ABOUT RIFLE CLUBS

HM Government reaffirms these objectives and its determination to use normal processes of the law to the fullest possible extent in dealing with terrorism.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8056')
	HM Government reaffirms these objectives and its determination to use normal processes of the law to the fullest possible extent in dealing with terrorism. 
In pursuit of those objectives, 
since 30 March 1972, 724 persons have been released from internment or detention: 171 persons are still interned and 70 persons are held in detention. During the same period, the law enforcement authorities in acting vigorously under the ordinary processes of the criminal law have achieved considerable success; 370 persons have been charged with offences connected with terrorist activities.

or a situation night arise in which a spate of civil actions gave rise to serious problems in relation to the disclosure of the identity of those involved in security operations.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7701')
	or a situation night arise in which a spate of civil actions gave rise to serious problems in relation to the disclosure of the identity of those involved in security operations. 
If such a situation arose the natter would need to be reconsidered.

The Attorney General presumably judges that, although such tribunals might be a more "judicial" alternative to the Secretary of State’s powers under the Special Powers Acts, their establishment would be seen as a further special measure indicating that the normal judicial structure of the Northern Ireland State was inadequate. 
(d) The Civil Law Do Ministers endorse the Attorney General’s view:(i) 
that, as regards the three (substantial) claims in respect of injuries suffered during deep interrogation, we should resist pressure for disclosure of documents about the instructions given and the techniques used (paragraph 23); 
(ii) 
that claims for death or injuries in the Londonderry incident should be dealt with in the light of the forthcoming opinion of the Law Officers upon the Crown’s legal liability; 
(iii) 
that claims for wrongful arrest or false imprisonment, where there is no question of brutality, should be settled;	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7696')
	Do Ministers endorse the Attorney General’s clear conclusion in paragraph 18 that there is no advantage in courts with a special composition (without jurors) exercising the ordinary criminal law? Do they also endorse his implied preference (paragraph 21) for not instituting tribunals with special procedures going beyond the present criminal law and rules of evidence? The Attorney General presumably judges that, although such tribunals might be a more "judicial" alternative to the Secretary of State’s powers under the Special Powers Acts, their establishment would be seen as a further special measure indicating that the normal judicial structure of the Northern Ireland State was inadequate.

(c) the internment of the I.R.A.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6565')
	(c) the internment of the I.R.A. by the Dublin Government. 
5. Naturally I asked whether the Irish Government was in a position to deliver (c). On this the Ambassador was most emphatic. 
Lynch was 
known to be willing, and Hillery, who was in many ways an awkward customer, had specifically said to O’Sullivans "We would certainly do it - I

that the business community as losing confidence.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2220')
	that the business community as losing confidence.

TIME OF DELIVERY PROPOSED IS OPENING OF BUSINESS ON MONDAY 
MORNING (OR EQUIVALENT WHEREVER NIXON IS) FAULKNER HAS CONFIRMED AGREEMENT WITH YOUR CONDITIONS 
ON BANNING PARADES AND MARCHES.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_194')
	FAULKNER HAS CONFIRMED AGREEMENT WITH YOUR CONDITIONS 
ON BANNING PARADES AND MARCHES. IS STILL BEING PURSUED. 
THE POINT ABOUT RIFLE CLUBS

(2) The Secretary of State for Northern Ireland might report on progress 
with the release of internees, with particular reference to the possibility (which he is considering) of a measure of accelerated release.	('PREM_15_1008', 'IMG_7595')
	The Secretary of State for Northern Ireland might report on progress 
with the release of internees, with particular reference to the possibility (which he is considering) of a measure of accelerated release. There will still, however, remain the problem of the "hard core".

The security forces are accordingly arresting and detaining people suspected of responsibility for committing or abetting acts of terrorism and other breaches of the peace designed to lead to a breakdown of law and order in Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_204')
	The security forces are accordingly arresting and detaining people suspected of responsibility for committing or abetting acts of terrorism and other breaches of the peace designed to lead to a breakdown of law and order in Northern Ireland.

2. THE PRIME MINISTER ASKED THAT YOU SHOULD MAKE EVERY EFFORT TO DELIVER THIS MESSAGE PERSONALLY TO MR. LYNCH AT THE EARLIEST POSSIBLE MOMENT,	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5862')
	THE PRIME MINISTER ASKED THAT YOU SHOULD MAKE EVERY EFFORT TO DELIVER THIS MESSAGE PERSONALLY TO MR. LYNCH AT THE EARLIEST POSSIBLE MOMENT, IF NECESSARY BY TELEPHONE, AND THAT IN DOING SO YOU SHOULD MAKE THE STRONGEST POSSIBLE REPRESENTATIONS BOTH ABOUT THE CONTENT OF THE MESSAGE AND ABOUT ITS TIMING IN RELATION TO A MEETING WITH MR. FAULKNER, THE WHOLE PURPOSE OF WHICH WAS TO DISCUSS THE POSSIBILITIES OF REDUCING TENSION AND RESTORING CO-OPERATION BETWEEN THE COMMUNITIES IN NORTHERN IRELAND.

Under 
Section 2 (4) of the Act, a person shall be deemed to be guilty of an offence against the Regulations if he does any act of such nature as to be calculated to be prejudicial to the preservation of the peace or maintenance of order in Northern Ireland and not specifically provided for in the Regulations.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2183')
	Any member of Her Majesty’s Forces on duty may also, where it is 
necessary for the purpose of effecting an arrest in respect of any crime or any offence under the Regulations made under the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act Northern Ireland, 1922, exercise, by virtue of that Act, the like powers as may be exercised by a police constable in effecting arrest in a case where an arrestable offence has been committed. 
Under 
Section 2 (4) of the Act, a person shall be deemed to be guilty of an offence against the Regulations if he does any act of such nature as to be calculated to be prejudicial to the preservation of the peace or maintenance of order in Northern Ireland and not specifically provided for in the Regulations.

Newspapers reported that it was decided that no criminal charges could be brought against him and he was returned on the grounds that his presence was not in the interests of national security.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5631')
	Newspapers reported that it was decided that no criminal charges could be brought against him and he was returned on the grounds that his presence was not in the interests of national security.

The Secretary of State said that he noted this point but felt that it would not be possible; if a date were issued the Provisional IRA would increase their violence to try and ensure that the deadline was not kept to.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7900')
	The Secretary of State said that he noted this point but felt that it would not be possible; if a date were issued the Provisional IRA would increase their violence to try and ensure that the deadline was not kept to.

As internment had 
been resorted to it was right to give all those confined access to the Appeal Tribunal. 
Internment Orders were therefore being made against all who were alleged to be actively associated with the I.R.A. Anyone who contested this	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5604')
	As internment had 
been resorted to it was right to give all those confined access to the Appeal Tribunal. 
Internment Orders were therefore being made against all who were alleged to be actively associated with the I.R.A. Anyone who contested this

In further discussion British Ministers re-emphasised that internment would represent a major political decision which must be matched by some corresponding act of discipline against the other faction.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_212')
	In further discussion British Ministers re-emphasised that internment would represent a major political decision which must be matched by some corresponding act of discipline against the other faction.

It seems that the 98 people at 
this particular centre were not told that they were being re-arrested under Regulation 11(i). It does not, however, follow that the procedure applied 
in the case of Mr. McElduff has to be applied in the case of the other 97. 
case, he was not interned but was kept in detention.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6143')
	It does not, however, follow that the procedure applied 
in the case of Mr. McElduff has to be applied in the case of the other 97. 
case, he was not interned but was kept in detention. 
Because he was known to be bringing this The 
other 97 have, however, since been interned and the Northern Ireland Government have been advised by their lawyers that the internment cancels out any defect in the arresting procedure at the time of detention.

Numbers of IRA officers detained 6. 
Of the total of some 400 people who were in detention or 
interned on 31 October 58 were known to be officers of the Provisions IRA and 29 officers of the Official IRA.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6343')
	Of the total of some 400 people who were in detention or 
interned on 31 October 58 were known to be officers of the Provisions IRA and 29 officers of the Official IRA.

11. These camps are earmarked as accommodation for reinforcing units.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2296')
	hese camps are earmarked as accommodation for reinforcing units. All would be needed if force levels in the Province were. 
required to be increased to 15 battalions this requirement might arise in the circumstances, or as a result of the circumstances in which internment was authorised

While believing that the Pope’s attitude hitherto 
hardly suggests he will give a forthright lead, the Foreign and Commonwealth Secretary agrees with the Prime Minister that it would be helpful to send a further message explaining the present position on "internment" (as the Pope persists in calling it), and expressing the hope that the Pope will be able to make a public and welcoming reference to the White Paper.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9325')
	While believing that the Pope’s attitude hitherto 
hardly suggests he will give a forthright lead, the Foreign and Commonwealth Secretary agrees with the Prime Minister that it would be helpful to send a further message explaining the present position on "internment" (as the Pope persists in calling it), and expressing the hope that the Pope will be able to make a public and welcoming reference to the White Paper.

HQNI ARE SEEKING THIS APPROVAL FROM THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE, AND IN VIEW OF THE OBVIOUS POLITICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF AN EXTENSION, I AM WITH THEIR KNOWLEDGE FOREWARNING YOU OF THIS.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6194')
	HQNI ARE SEEKING THIS APPROVAL FROM THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE, AND IN VIEW OF THE OBVIOUS POLITICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF AN EXTENSION, I AM WITH THEIR KNOWLEDGE FOREWARNING YOU OF THIS.

I hope that today’s releases may here.	('PREM_15_1006', 'IMG_7292')
	I hope that today’s releases may here.ld the beginning of a phasing-out of internment but I must place on record once more that in considering the cases of internees I must have regard to the current security situation. It would be quite wrong to release men who might encourage an upsurge of violence against the security forces or the community in general.

Legislation will vary from country to country and Military personnel are to acquaint themselves 
with the laws of the country concerned, and will not act unlawfully under any circumstances whatever.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5027')
	Under conditions of emergency, or near emergency, there is likely 
to be internal security legislation controlling the treatment of detainees and arrested persons. 
reflect prevailing conditions. 
Legislation will vary from country to country and Military personnel are to acquaint themselves 
with the laws of the country concerned, and will not act unlawfully under any circumstances whatever.

But one immediate proposal I would urge on And it starts from 
It is clear that no agreement will be 
possible unless the package includes measures for a progressive ending of internment, defined in terms of imprisonment without trial or preferred charges.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6915')
	t is clear that no agreement will be 
possible unless the package includes measures for a progressive ending of internment, defined in terms of imprisonment without trial or preferred charges. Press reports indicate that this is bein considered by the Government, and that once the releases begin, their number and timing will depend upon the scaling down of violence.

If that power no longer exists, the situation even in Belfast could quickly deteriorate again as those who are released come back into circulation.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6779')
	If that power no longer exists, the situation even in Belfast could quickly deteriorate again as those who are released come back into circulation.

10. That’s the aim we must now put before everything else, and for this reason I have also decided that the security forces must not, at this critical tie, be diverted from their essential tasks.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_52')
	That’s the aim we must now put before everything else, and for this reason I have also decided that the security forces must not, at this critical tie, be diverted from their essential tasks.

(E) ALL THE PRESENT CROP OF ALLEGATIONS CAME FROM MEN CHARGED WITH CRIMINAL OFFENCES, TWO HAVE ALREADY BEEN SENTENCED TO 10 YEARS.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4967')
	(E) ALL THE PRESENT CROP OF ALLEGATIONS CAME FROM MEN CHARGED WITH CRIMINAL OFFENCES, TWO HAVE ALREADY BEEN SENTENCED TO 10 YEARS. NONE ARE INTERNEES.

INTERROGATION CENTRE WAS NECESSARILY MINISTER FOR HOME AFFAIRS, WITH THE MAJESTY’S GOVERNMENT.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_2106')
	INTERROGATION CENTRE WAS NECESSARILY MINISTER FOR HOME AFFAIRS, WITH THE MAJESTY’S GOVERNMENT.

I discussed further with the Chief of Staff the second sentence of 
paragraph 7(b). He explained that it had been included in the revised CLF directive on the grounds it reflected the instructions in the Secretary of State’s letter of 6th November in which he said: "In view of recent developments, Protestant terrorists may fall to be dealt with under the new order.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1804')
	"In view of recent developments, Protestant terrorists may fall to be dealt with under the new order. It is not possible at the moment to define the categories which I will be prepared to consider for interim custody and for the time being I will consider applications in respect of them on their merits."

groups emerge 
from concealment for an attack the security forces are always in a position to engage or capture and if open confrontation occurs there is always, as we know, an appalling risk of innocent people being injured or killed.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5590')
	When I.R.A. groups emerge 
from concealment for an attack the security forces are always in a position to engage or capture and if open confrontation occurs there is always, as we know, an appalling risk of innocent people being injured or killed.

that would have at best been a long haul, and Faulkner’s judgment was that the consequences of that for the community would be worse than the consequences of what is no proposed.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2193')
	Faulkner’s judgment was that the consequences of that for the community would be worse than the consequences of what is no proposed.

supported 
the Northern Ireland Government in the view that murders and terrorists and intimidators could not be allowed to continue unchecked; although there was no doubt that the security forces could have contained the situation, it would have involved a very long haul and a deteriorating local situation.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_153')
	H.M.G. supported 
the Northern Ireland Government in the view that murders and terrorists and intimidators could not be allowed to continue unchecked; although there was no doubt that the security forces could have contained the situation, it would have involved a very long haul and a deteriorating local situation.

(b) The problem of outstanding offences of a terrorist character committed by IRA men who have evaded arrest or skipped bail will require a separate decision.	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1793')
	The problem of outstanding offences of a terrorist character committed by IRA men who have evaded arrest or skipped bail will require a separate decision.

(ii) outrages upon personal dignity, in particular, humiliating and degrading treatment.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5027')
	(ii) outrages upon personal dignity, in particular, humiliating and degrading treatment.

ut it can hardly be supposed that the confidence of the minority 
is to be on back by letting the gunman loose to reimpose their will in areas from which they have been expelled.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6968')
	ut it can hardly be supposed that the confidence of the minority 
is to be on back by letting the gunman loose to reimpose their will in areas from which they have been expelled.

He will at the same time announce that all marches and The ban will be 
in the first instance for six months, but it will be made clear that the need to extend and renew the ban for a further period will be considered in the light of the situation towards the end of the period.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_204')
	es are banned until further notice. 
He will at the same time announce that all marches and

WHAT I RECOMMEND IS A MAJOR MINISTERIAL STATEMENT, SHOWING EQUAL DETERMINATION IN THE MILITARY AND THE POLITICAL FIELDS, AND ASSERTING THE AUTHORITY OF HMG IN THE UK IN BOTH. 
SMITH	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6205')
	A REFERENCE TO INTERNMENT SHOULD INCLUDE THE POINTS IN PARAGRAPH 2 OF MY TELEGRAM NO 71 
. THERE SHOULD BE A PASSAGE ON REFORM, 
AND IN THAT CONNECTION I SHOULD LIKE TO REMIND YOU OF THE IDEA IN PARA 6 OF MY TELEGRAM NO 52 ABOUT A STANDING COMMISSION. WHAT I RECOMMEND IS A MAJOR MINISTERIAL STATEMENT, SHOWING EQUAL DETERMINATION IN THE MILITARY AND THE POLITICAL FIELDS, AND ASSERTING THE AUTHORITY OF HMG IN THE UK IN BOTH.

The test for an internee’s fitness for release was not so much his innocence of any association with terrorist organisations, but whether he could be set at large without danger to the community.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6175')
	The test for an internee’s fitness for release was not so much his innocence of any association with terrorist organisations, but whether he could be set at large without danger to the community.

But the Northern Ireland Goverment have a firm commitment to consult H.M.G.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2298')
	But the Northern Ireland Goverment have a firm commitment to consult H.M.G. before making a final decision.

Merely to advise the immediate ending of internment is to misunderstand the realities of the present situation and the need to protect the community generally; but any serious proposals for the ending of internment consonant with the general public interest will be most carefully considered by the Government.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4974')
	Merely to advise the immediate ending of internment is to misunderstand the realities of the present situation and the need to protect the community generally; but any serious proposals for the ending of internment consonant with the general public interest will be most carefully considered by the Government.

We have done so fully recognising that each of us remains committed to his publicly stated position on the constitutional status of Northern Ireland; and we have been concerned to see whether, without prejudice to those positions, we can find some agreed means of enabling all the people of Northern Ireland to live in the conditions of peace and stability which any democracy should ensure to its citizens without regard to their religious or political conviction.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5697')
	During the last two days we have discussed the 
situation in Northern Ireland in all its aspects. We have done so fully recognising that each of us remains committed to his publicly stated position on the constitutional status of Northern Ireland; and we have been concerned to see whether, without prejudice to those positions, we can find some agreed means of enabling all the people of Northern Ireland to live in the conditions of peace and stability which any democracy should ensure to its citizens without regard to their religious or political conviction.

In January the Government were able to contemplate a situation arising in the spring or early summer when the IRA’s hold over the Catholic minority (except in London-derry) would have been loosened to the point where it might have become possible to hold talks of the kind envisaged by the Home Secretary in his statement of 7 September.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7220')
	In the first few months following the 
introduction of internment on 9 August the IRA terrorism was fairly effective. 
By November 
however the Army’s tactics began to have an impact. In January the Government were able to contemplate a situation arising in the spring or early summer when the IRA’s hold over the Catholic minority (except in London-derry) would have been loosened to the point where it might have become possible to hold talks of the kind envisaged by the Home Secretary in his statement of 7 September.

Clearly the effectiveness of internment in Northern Ireland could have been increased if you had felt able to take similar measures on your side of the border. But I judged from our Ambassador’s report of his recent talk with you that there was no prospect of that, and I could not therefore hold out this possibility as an inducement to Falkney	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_200')
	Clearly the effectiveness of internment in Northern Ireland could have been increased if you had felt able to take similar measures on your side of the border. But I judged from our Ambassador’s report of his recent talk with you that there was no prospect of that, and I could not therefore hold out this possibility as an inducement to Falkney

Neither would he abandon this, he said, in the face of "those on the other side of the political spectrum who cry ’betrayal’ at every sign of change and progress in the community". He warned the Opposition against making common cause with extremists and said he was willing to approach with them the problem in a non-partisan manner.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5838')
	He warned the Opposition against making common cause with extremists and said he was willing to approach with them the problem in a non-partisan manner.

Givon that.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2262')
	Givon that. the reyal purpoco of tho accommodation munt not be divulgod in public,’ the Northorn Ireland Govornment have confirmod that they can see no viay in overcoming two major difficultico

as before within the limits of the law.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5589')
	as before within the limits of the law. 
Anyone in Northern Ireland is as free to express his views The only reason anyone is interned 
is that he belongs to, and has actively supported, an organisation which advocated and uses violence for political ends.

Mr. Faulkner undertook to submit proposals on all these points; but we should keep up the pressure to ensure that he does so.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6558')
	Internment procedures. The Home Secretary raised with 
Mr. Faulkner at their recent meeting the possibility of improving these procedures, e. g. by giving an internee a written statement of the allegation against him; by considering appeals in two stages, with legal representation at one but not at the other; and by enlarging the Appeals Committee in order to accelerate the hearings. Mr. Faulkner undertook to submit proposals on all these points; but we should keep up the pressure to ensure that he does so.

For our part, we have made it clear that there could be no question of our accepting internment, and instructing 
our forces to help to implement it, if it was not accompanied.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2196')
	For our part, we have made it clear that there could be no question of our accepting internment, and instructing 
our forces to help to implement it, if it was not accompanied. by a complete ban. on marches and parades of all- kinds; and we have made clear our present view that that ben will need to remain force as long as internment lasts,

24 
There is no doubt that the information obtained by these two operations directly and indirectly was responsible for the saving of lives of innocent citizens.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5003')
	There is no doubt that the information obtained by these two operations directly and indirectly was responsible for the saving of lives of innocent citizens.

The Security Forces would continue to take action against those who break the law or who engage in terrorist activities.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_159')
	The Security Forces would continue to take action against those who break the law or who engage in terrorist activities. In fact for the Army it would be "business as usual" at least until there were real signs of the intention of a ceasefire being translated into fact.

Again, there is nothing in the Regula: which requires his to be done but, on the whole, I don’t think so.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2176')
	Again, there is nothing in the Regula: which requires his to be done but, on the whole, I don’t think so. Under 
agdlation 11(2) the Attorney-General has power to discharge the arson detained but not the Detention Order.

Have sent a further message tQ 
Mr. Lynch, asking him to react with understanding; even if with regret, and emphasising that we hope that these measures can be strictly temporary, and will serve to re-establish a situation in which we can get back to the task of making progress with building more harmonious inter-community relations in Northern Ireland.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2197')
	we hope that these measures can be strictly temporary, and will serve to re-establish a situation in which we can get back to the task of making progress with building more harmonious inter-community relations in Northern Ireland.

Regulation 10 of the Special Powers Act.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6143')
	Regulation 10 of the Special Powers Act. 
The original arrest is under After 48 hours 
the man has to be re-arrested under Regulation 11(i) so that he can be detained.

Further, the Army’s willingness to see a larger 
number of the present internees released rests on the assumption that it will still be possible to re-arrest any who are found to be engaging in violence again.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6779')
	Further, the Army’s willingness to see a larger 
number of the present internees released rests on the assumption that it will still be possible to re-arrest any who are found to be engaging in violence again.

It will become clear(once the Bill is passed) that detention procedures are temporary and that, given an end to the appalling conditions which make them necessary, they will be allowed to lapse.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9322')
	It will become clear(once the Bill is passed) that detention procedures are temporary and that, given an end to the appalling conditions which make them necessary, they will be allowed to lapse. H.M. Government have no intention of keeping these provisions in force a moment longer than is necessary.

It seems likely that among the ingredients of any 
political initiative should be the appointment of a new Secretary of State in the British Government, to take over from the Home Secretary his present responsibility for Northern Ireland affairs, some indication that the policy of internment is being wound down (so that there is a prospect of increasing releases as and when violence dies down), and probably the transfer of responsibility for law and order from Stormont to Westminster.	('PREM_15_1004', 'IMG_7119')
	It seems likely that among the ingredients of any 
political initiative should be the appointment of a new Secretary of State in the British Government, to take over from the Home Secretary his present responsibility for Northern Ireland affairs, some indication that the policy of internment is being wound down (so that there is a prospect of increasing releases as and when violence dies down), and probably the transfer of responsibility for law and order from Stormont to Westminster.

8. This leads one to speculate whether the almost inevitable Roman 
Catholic hostility to an announcement in the form of the draft annexed to the Secretary of State’s memorandum might be moderated (with possibly favourable consequences for the attitude of the SDLP) if the announcement was rather more positively worded,	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8063')
	This leads one to speculate whether the almost inevitable Roman 
Catholic hostility to an announcement in the form of the draft annexed to the Secretary of State’s memorandum might be moderated (with possibly favourable consequences for the attitude of the SDLP) if the announcement was rather more positively worded, particularly by including an undertaking to introduce parallel legislation to dismantle the Special Powers Act, and if, at the same time as the announcement, all except the really hard core internees and detainees were released.

When arresting a person under this Qrdor the oIdior mcking the arrest is to say • "I am arresting you under the powera co nerred by the Civil Auhorritis (speoisa vowerm) At (Northarn Ireland) 1922". If the person arrestow questiono the Authority for thO Arrest,	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4939')
	"I am arresting you under the powera co nerred by the Civil Auhorritis (speoisa vowerm) At (Northarn Ireland) 1922". If the person arrestow questiono the Authority for thO Arrest, t’ by asking what ofenooe he hs uommitted or under what Regulation he is avrrsted tho oldier making the arrent is to say " 
am not required to give any furthr explanation. that if yourssaresyou may be committing an offenoe".

difficult to hold the line with anybody.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2220')
	difficult to hold the line with anybody.

e. 
Other terrorists who are known, on the basis of a joint intelligence 
assessment, to be an exceptionally serious threat to security, and for whom, in the absence of evidence which could form the basis of a criminal charge, a strong case could be made for an interim custody order.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1802')
	Other terrorists who are known, on the basis of a joint intelligence 
assessment, to be an exceptionally serious threat to security, and for whom, in the absence of evidence which could form the basis of a criminal charge, a strong case could be made for an interim custody order.

Extract from THE WORLD AT ONE Philip Whitfield/ord-Chalfont 
TRANSMISSION: 30th August 1971 CHALFOnT: 
As a result of the policy of detention and 
presumably internment will follow,	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5672')
	As a result of the policy of detention and 
presumably internment will follow, the IRA, the groups, units, in the Belfast area have been badly broken up, and many of them have had to go into the Republic of Ireland where of course they are given complete freedom by the authorities down there, to operate, to train, and to move about arms and gelignite, and therefore one is very likely to have an increasing number of incidents along the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.

The court would be obliged to inform the accused at least of the general tenor of the evidence against him and to hear him or his counsel in his defence.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7787')
	The court would be obliged to inform the accused at least of the general tenor of the evidence against him and to hear him or his counsel in his defence.

key to successful operations 
/terrorists 
Medical examination and record of weight of subject on admission and discharge.	('DEFE_13_917', 'IMG_2327')
	Intelligence is the. key to successful operations

5. 
The Attorney General would support this proposal.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1864')
	The Attorney General would support this proposal.

YOUR TELEGRAM NUMBER GUIDANCE 213. 1. THERE IS NO QUOTE APPROPRIATE ACTION UNQUOTE TO BE TAKEN IN DUBLIN TO PREVENT MISINTERPRETATION OF THE DETENTION ORDERS SAVE THE LINE WE HAVE ALREADY TAKEN WITH TRUSTED CONTACTS, THAT THE 219 PERSONS CONCERNED ARE DIRECTLY OR CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH THE IRA.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5755')
	THERE IS NO QUOTE APPROPRIATE ACTION UNQUOTE TO BE TAKEN IN DUBLIN TO PREVENT MISINTERPRETATION OF THE DETENTION ORDERS SAVE THE LINE WE HAVE ALREADY TAKEN WITH TRUSTED CONTACTS, THAT THE 219 PERSONS CONCERNED ARE DIRECTLY OR CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH THE IRA.

(c) 
Continue selective searches for Protestant 
extremist arms, ammunition, explosive and equipment.	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1476')
	Continue a selective arrest policy against 
Protestant terrorists against whom evidence exists sufficient for criminal proceedings or the signing of ICOs. 
(b) Prepare, when ordered, to arrest simultaneously 
all those active Protestant terrorists who are known to be involved in bombing. (c) 
Continue selective searches for Protestant 
extremist arms, ammunition, explosive and equipment.

The Prime Minister asked Lord Parker about the 
suggestion that was often made that special courts should be set up to try internees.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4988')
	The Prime Minister asked Lord Parker about the 
suggestion that was often made that special courts should be set up to try internees. Lord Parker said that he found it difficult to conceive of a criminal court in which the identity of a prosecution witness was kept secret from the accused and his legal representatives. There had been nothing like this in English legal history since we Seventeenth Century.

troops behaved brutally while carrying out arrests have not been Substantiated.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5141')
	troops behaved brutally while carrying out arrests have not been Substantiated. In only two cases 
- 
No. As the Compton Report makes clear, the allegations that those of Mr. Cummings and Mr. 
Gilmore - did the Committee find that those arrested had suffered a measure of physical ill-treatment at the time of arrest, and this 
was not deliberate. When this is set against the total of 342 arrests which the troops made on 9 August, I can see little reason for changing the Army’s orders about arresting people.

IT SEEMS INEVITABLE, THEREFORE, THAT INTELLIGENCE PROCUREMENT WILL SUFFER.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6772')
	IT SEEMS INEVITABLE, THEREFORE, THAT INTELLIGENCE PROCUREMENT WILL SUFFER.

2. 
But internment is only a means to an end: and the political and social consequences have been serious - more serious than many people Is 
Northern Ireland expected.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5885')
	But internment is only a means to an end: and the political and social consequences have been serious - more serious than many people Is 
Northern Ireland expected.

They had set up the tribunal to deal with the internees, so that they could in effect move over to a system of detention like that available to the Irish authorities. In addition, they had asked Lord Diplock and his colleagues to look into how these matters should	('PREM_15_1015', 'IMG_8291')
	The Prime Minister said that the British Government 
were running into similar legal problems to those of the Irish Government. They had set up the tribunal to deal with the internees, so that they could in effect move over to a system of detention like that available to the Irish authorities.

and The marches 
due in Derry on 12 August and in Belfast at the end of the month will not take place.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_193')
	The marches 
due in Derry on 12 August and in Belfast at the end of the month will not take place

(c) 
It would probably be more sustainable politically than the Home Secretary’s proposals 
- both as giving less offence to the 
Government’s supporters at Westminster and as involving less risk of a Protestant backlash in Ulster.	('PREM_15_1004', 'IMG_7095')
	It would probably be more sustainable politically than the Home Secretary’s proposals 
- both as giving less offence to the 
Government’s supporters at Westminster and as involving less risk of a Protestant backlash in Ulster. But even this cannot be assumed too lightly relaxed as part of the deal. 
- especially if internment were

Since that decision, all the other original arrests have either (as has happened in most cases) been overtaken by internment orders, or 
the arrested 
persons have been released.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_5974')
	Since that decision, all the other original arrests have either (as has happened in most cases) been overtaken by internment orders, or 
the arrested 
persons have been released. And, of course, the more recent arrests made under the Special Powers Act have been carried out in what the courts held to be the correct manner.

The degree 
carry out the actual arrest and if possible to practise what he is to say beforehand.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1828')
	Theme are normally made under the SPA powers. The degree

Moreover, these Interim provisions will be 
employed only where the ordinary processes of the criminal law are inadequate and will be enforced with complete impartiality against whatever persons or organisations are found to be engaged in terrorism and violence.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8058')
	Moreover, these Interim provisions will be 
employed only where the ordinary processes of the criminal law are inadequate and will be enforced with complete impartiality against whatever persons or organisations are found to be engaged in terrorism and violence.

The possibility of phasing out internment in this way has been studied, but is open to the following objections:- 
(1) All internees are, on the evidence available, either members of the IRA or otherwise involved in terrorism, and there is no pool of mere political activists from which releases can be made.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6958')
	All internees are, on the evidence available, either members of the IRA or otherwise involved in terrorism, and there is no pool of mere political activists from which releases can be made.

ALL THE EVIDENCE INDICATES A DELIBERATE IRA POLICY TO DISTURB SOCIETY IN THE NORTH, DESTROY ECONOMIC LIFE AND DISCREDIT THE STORMONT GOVERNMENT, 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE 
3. ALL IMMEDIATE ADDRESSEES SHOULD ENSURE THAT THE FOREGOING IS AS APPROPRIATE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE GOVERNMENT TO WHICH THEY ARE ACCREDITED, AND THE REASONS BEHIND THE DECISION APPRECIATED.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_165')
	ALL THE EVIDENCE INDICATES A DELIBERATE IRA POLICY TO DISTURB SOCIETY IN THE NORTH, DESTROY ECONOMIC LIFE AND DISCREDIT THE STORMONT GOVERNMENT,

interrupted the IRA could re-group with impunity. 7. 
If this flow were The Joint Security Committee have noted these conclusions and have accepted	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6958')
	The process of internment has provided, and continues to provide, a flow of intelligence on the membership, resources and plans of the IRA. 
interrupted the IRA could re-group with impunity. 7. 
If this flow were The Joint Security Committee have noted these conclusions and have accepted

(under existing law prisoners in Northern Ireland can only be transferred to prisons in Great Britain at their own request) The Isle of Man has also been ruled out: not only would legislation in Northern Ireland end the Isle of Man be necessary, but any scheme would also need prior discussion and agreement with the Isle of Man Government, which is highly unlikely to be forthcoming 
Naval Vessels 4. 
The MAIDSTONE, which is at present serving as an Army accon.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2294')
	On Home Office advice the use of Great Britain either in 
terms of prisons or other accommodation or even the use of a Great Britain anchorage has been ruled out because legislation at Westminster would be required to enable internees to be accommodated in this country or in its territorial waters. (under existing law prisoners in Northern Ireland can only be transferred to prisons in Great Britain at their own request) The Isle of Man has also been ruled out: not only would legislation in Northern Ireland end the Isle of Man be necessary, but any scheme would also need prior discussion and agreement with the Isle of Man Government, which is highly unlikely to be forthcoming

9. 
It is with understandable reluctance that one uses these 
exceptional powers, but the organisations concerned are those which have murdered in cold blood, created situations which have led to death or injury to people quite uninvolved in disorder, maimed numerous people including young children and put at risk the jobs and the whole future of ntire communities.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_51')
	It is with understandable reluctance that one uses these 
exceptional powers, but the organisations concerned are those which have murdered in cold blood, created situations which have led to death or injury to people quite uninvolved in disorder, maimed numerous people including young children and put at risk the jobs and the whole future of ntire communities.

4. The operation should be seen against the background of the fight against a ruthless and murderous enemy; that is to say criminals who ish to impose their will by violence and terror.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5083')
	The operation should be seen against the background of the fight against a ruthless and murderous enemy; that is to say criminals who ish to impose their will by violence and terror. This year there have been over 800 bomb explosions in Northern Ireland; hospitals have treated nearly 600 victims of violence; of these more than 200 were British soldiers; almost two thirds of the civilian casualties were women including girls disfigured for life in explosions. These things have been done by the IRA.

I HAD ALREADY INVITED LYNCH TO COME OVER 
HERE FOR MEETINGS IN OCTOBER, FOR A GENERAL DISCUSSION ON THE WHOLE RANGE OF MATTERS OF INTEREST TO US BOTH, AND I HOPE VERY MUCH THAT THAT ARRANGEMENT WILL BE ABLE TO STAND. 
TO FAULKNERS JUDGEMENT THERE IS	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_196')
	FAULKNERS JUDGEMENT

ARREST POLICY 3. 
The arrest of eight men last night, four of whom were on a ’wanted’ list, 
raises the question in what circumstances such arrests should be made.	('PREM_15_1008', 'IMG_7508')
	The arrest of eight men last night, four of whom were on a ’wanted’ list, 
raises the question in what circumstances such arrests should be made. Three of the men are thought to be senior officers of the Belfast Provisionals. The question is which people should be arrested and for what purposes; criminal charges, questioning under the Special Powers Act, or in rare cases detention or internment. The Northern Ireland Office will arrange for the subject to be considered by the Joint Security Committee in Northern Ireland.

5. WHEN FAULKNER CAME TO LONDON LAST WEEK, HE TOLD US THAT HE HAD COME TO THE CONCLUSION THAT INTERNMENT WAS NOW THE RIGHT AND INDEED INEVITABLE COURSE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_196')
	WHEN FAULKNER CAME TO LONDON LAST WEEK, HE TOLD US THAT HE HAD COME TO THE CONCLUSION THAT INTERNMENT WAS NOW THE RIGHT AND INDEED INEVITABLE COURSE.

During the last two days we have discussed the 
situation in Northern Ireland in all its aspects.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5697')
	During the last two days we have discussed the 
situation in Northern Ireland in all its aspects. We have done so fully recognising that each of us remains committed to his publicly stated position on the constitutional status of Northern Ireland; and we have been concerned to see whether, without prejudice to those positions, we can find some agreed means of enabling all the people of Northern Ireland to live in the conditions of peace and stability which any democracy should ensure to its citizens without regard to their religious or political conviction.

HIS ANIOUNCEfENT HAD BEEN PRECEDED BY 
SERIES Or ARRESTS 
ONE PZPORT SAID "AT LEAST 200" ; WHICH R SULEDS ROH SWOOPS BY’ SECURITY FORCES IN A NUM ER OF AR AS 
Ufl FULKiER SAID liiE MAIN KARGET 0iHE OPERATION VAS E THE -INTRODUC -1-ON OF I NTE RN!	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2168')
	THE -INTRODUC -1-ON OF I NTE RN!A NT UNDER THE SPEC IAs PCE RS 
ACT NEEDED OI.Y A STROKE OF THE P N REGULATIONS TO PERMIT II #ERWIENT ALREADY EXISTED AND WER USED EXTENSIVELY DURING TIE I- R.A. CAIPA IGN FROM 1956 T0 1961.

"Every means has been tried to make terrorists amenable to the law.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5162')
	Every means has been tried to make terrorists amenable to the law.

some new situation arises, ie that he himself re-engages in illegal activity or that the general situation has deteriorated.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7249')
	If that is agreed, it is important 
not to lose sight of the fact that neither releases from internment nor internment orders themselves are pure acts of policy. 
If an internment order depends on the 
individual concerned being a danger to public security, then his release must imply that that danger is no longer present. 
some new situation arises, ie that he himself re-engages in illegal activity or that the general situation has deteriorated.

The GOCtherefore plans to make a start with the harassment tactics before the end of this month (which will of course be presented as a response to the recent outbreaks of violence)and he will shortly be reporting the details of these plans.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_256')
	The GOCtherefore plans to make a start with the harassment tactics before the end of this month (which will of course be presented as a response to the recent outbreaks of violence)and he will shortly be reporting the details of these plans.

8. 
taken should not discriminate as between the different sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_187')
	taken should not discriminate as between the different sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable. 
We hve however made clear our view that the measures

and in Belfast at the end of the month will not take place.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2194')
	marches due in Derry on 12 August .and in Belfast at the end of the month will not take place.

to use 
HM Government reaffirm these objectives and their determination the processes of law to the fullest possible extent in 
dealing with terrorism.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8052')
	o use 
HM Government reaffirm these objectives and their determination the processes of law to the fullest possible extent in 
dealing with terrorism.

NOTE ON INTERROGATION 1. The general rules governing the custody of detainees and the processes of 
interrogation have been reviewed from time to time by the Government Departments and agencies concerned in the light of experience gained in the various internal security operations in which HMG have been involved since the last war.	('DEFE_13_917', 'IMG_2305')
	The general rules governing the custody of detainees and the processes of 
interrogation have been reviewed from time to time by the Government Departments and agencies concerned in the light of experience gained in the various internal security operations in which HMG have been involved since the last war.

Naturally anyone who could be brought before a criminal court would be and it could be provided that acquittal in a criminal court was no bar to proceedings for preventive detention.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7786')
	Naturally anyone who could be brought before a criminal court would be and it could be provided that acquittal in a criminal court was no bar to proceedings for preventive detention.

There are great difficulties in preventing control of internment camps from passing to the IRA leadership, but the opening of a new compound for the less intransigent provides an opportunity for establishing proper control.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4980')
	At the end of February, another compound at Long Kesh will be ready and it 
is proposed to transfer to it most of those in the less dangerous category. There are great difficulties in preventing control of internment camps from passing to the IRA leadership, but the opening of a new compound for the less intransigent provides an opportunity for establishing proper control.

At all times I have consistently emphasized that it was not a step towards which I would be moved by any political clamour.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_51')
	At all times I have consistently emphasized that it was not a step towards which I would be moved by any political clamour. Equally, I cannot now allow the prospect of any misrepresentation to deflect me from my duty to act.

DETENTION 6. 
a. By 29 December the Commissioners had reviewed the cases of 167 men who had 
been interned and ordered the release of 63. The following remain interned/ detained as at 31 December 1972: 
10 interned under the previous powers whose cases have not yet 
been reviewed by the Commissioners.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_159')
	By 29 December the Commissioners had reviewed the cases of 167 men who had 
been interned and ordered the release of 63. The following remain interned/ detained as at 31 December 1972: 
10 interned under the previous powers whose cases have not yet 
been reviewed by the Commissioners. b. 
teen reviewed by the Commissioners. c. 
d. 106 detained under the previous powers whose cases have not yet 104 who were previously interned and whose cases have been 
reviewed by the Commissioners who have ordered that they should be detained. 
72 detained since the introduction of the Commission and held under interim custody orders until their cases are heard by the Commissioners.

It could be built in such a way that the external signs of its use as an internment camp 
- for example, guard towers and corrugated iron fencing - could be left for erection only when this 
use was intended; and that the internal facilities required in this event 
an alternative legitimate designation.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2272')
	It could be built in such a way that the external signs of its use as an internment camp 
- for example, guard towers and corrugated iron fencing - could be left for erection only when this 
use was intended; and that the internal facilities required in this event 
an alternative legitimate designation. 4. 
- e.g. reception centre, refractory cell block - could be given

(Some reference to the conditions at Long Kesh; the Red Cross inspection; the derogation under the European Convention on Human Rights, etc Back this up with an undertaking that the appeals procedure (due to 
begin on Saturday) will be conducted as rapidly as possible and will embrace all internees, whether they appeal or not.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5707')
	Then, try to get Mr. Faulkner to justify the way in which internment 
has been carried out and the treatment which has been given to the internees. (Some reference to the conditions at Long Kesh; the Red Cross inspection; the derogation under the European Convention on Human Rights, etc Back this up with an undertaking that the appeals procedure (due to 
begin on Saturday) will be conducted as rapidly as possible and will embrace all internees, whether they appeal or not.

Timing and scope of Act of Indemnity 5. 
before order has been restored and all detainees released.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7699')
	before order has been restored and all detainees released.

1 OF YOUR TEL 283. YOU CAN SAY THAT RECENT EVENTS HAVE OBVIOUSLY STRENGTHENED THE PROBABILITIES OF INTERNMENT BEING INTRODUCED IN NORTHERN IRELAND AND IT IS BEING SERIOUSLY THOUGHT ABOUT AS A POSSIBLE NEXT MOVE. WE THEREFORE SHOULD BE GRTATEFUL FOR A SUBSTANTIVE REACTION ON THIS	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_231')
	YOU CAN SAY THAT RECENT EVENTS HAVE OBVIOUSLY STRENGTHENED THE PROBABILITIES OF INTERNMENT BEING INTRODUCED IN NORTHERN IRELAND AND IT IS BEING SERIOUSLY THOUGHT ABOUT AS A POSSIBLE NEXT MOVE.

Internment is not appropriate in the case of those people who 
may have been guilty of indiscriminate or malicious violence, and I am satisfied that the ordinary processes of law are sufficient to deal with the great majority of them.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5590')
	Internment is not appropriate in the case of those people who 
may have been guilty of indiscriminate or malicious violence, and I am satisfied that the ordinary processes of law are sufficient to deal with the great majority of them.

The late series of acts of terrorism by the I.R.A. and their rec declarations of their intention to continue and even	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2192')
	The late series of acts of terrorism by the I.R.A. and their rec declarations of their intention to continue and even

Review of Internees 7. 
Judge Brown’s Advisory Body is making progress with the review 
of the cases of internees and it is expected that it will soon be in a position to release some further figures. Allegations of Brutality 8. 
Today’s "Irish News" carries a story that detainees are being	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6343')
	Judge Brown’s Advisory Body is making progress with the review 
of the cases of internees and it is expected that it will soon be in a position to release some further figures.

I understand that pressure for internment is considerable and I agree that 
it may well become necessary.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_220')
	I understand that pressure for internment is considerable and I agree that 
it may well become necessary.

28 June 
ARREST POLICY The policy to be followed oh the making of arrests was worked out and 
agreed with the security forces on Monday.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7621')
	The policy to be followed oh the making of arrests was worked out and 
agreed with the security forces on Monday.

THE PRIME MINISTER said that,	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_211')
	THE PRIME MINISTER said that, after discussing with his colleagues the representations which Mr Faulkner had made at their meeting earlier in the afternoon, he had reached the conclusion that, if the position could be correctly described by saying that Mr Faulkner now wished to adopt a policy of internment and to invoke the statutory powers available to him for this purpose, the British Government would regard themselves as having been consulted by the Government of Northern Ireland and would be ready to acquiesce in this decision and to give the security forces the necessary instructions.

EWX hitelaw acid that in addition rto the 47 reased earlier this week he had ordered the release of another 18 internees today.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7904')
	EWX hitelaw acid that in addition rto the 47 reased earlier this week he had ordered the release of another 18 internees today. Thse reloea were a further indiation of the Governernt’s intention to hase out interjmaant.

(3) Legal representation.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6185')
	(3) Legal representation. 
a Fauilx1er, reinforced by fort’"awY 9 ., Is it agreed that this should be available not only for the preparation of cases but also or the actual hearinga ?

YOU WILL BY NOW BE AWARE OF THE STATEMENT ISSUED LAST 
NIGHT BY THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR NORTHERN IRELAND ON SECURITY POLICY, OF WHICH I ATTACH A COPY.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8047')
	YOU WILL BY NOW BE AWARE OF THE STATEMENT ISSUED LAST 
NIGHT BY THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR NORTHERN IRELAND ON SECURITY POLICY, OF WHICH I ATTACH A COPY

18. The opening of Magilligan Camp on Sunday, with the transfer of forty detainees from HMS MAIDSTONE, has given rise to a good deal of speculation about the future of internment generally and, in particular, about the number of people whom the security authorities think it will be necessary to intern in order to render the IRA ineffective.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6716')
	The opening of Magilligan Camp on Sunday, with the transfer of forty detainees from HMS MAIDSTONE, has given rise to a good deal of speculation about the future of internment generally and, in particular, about the number of people whom the security authorities think it will be necessary to intern in order to render the IRA ineffective.

introduction of direct rule from Westminster, the numbers of those interned had been reduced from over 1000 to 171 and he hoped that more would be released.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8245')
	introduction of direct rule from Westminster, the numbers of those interned had been reduced from over 1000 to 171 and he hoped that more would be released.

And this was by no means an isolated example; there have been frequent reports to show what the IRA do to people who talk.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6634')
	And this was by no means an isolated example; there have been frequent reports to show what the IRA do to people who talk. What further evidence can one possibly need of intimidation?

And it is not much good arguing that intimidation exists only in our imagination, when only two weeks ago a bus driver who was about to give evidence for the Crown in an important case - 
Mr. Sidney Agnew - was murdered by 
masked gunmen in front of his family.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6634')
	And it is not much good arguing that intimidation exists only in our imagination, when only two weeks ago a bus driver who was about to give evidence for the Crown in an important case - 
Mr. Sidney Agnew - was murdered by 
masked gunmen in front of his family.

14. If it were agreed that the need to keep potential terrorists out of circulation outweighed the political penalties of doing so, the security forces could attempt in the course of the operation to arrest all those reliably believed to be members of the Provisional 
- and 
possibly the Official IRA, depending on their reactions as well as those reliably believed to be organisers of Protestant para-military activity.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_32')
	If it were agreed that the need to keep potential terrorists out of circulation outweighed the political penalties of doing so, the security forces could attempt in the course of the operation to arrest all those reliably believed to be members of the Provisional 
- and 
possibly the Official IRA, depending on their reactions as well as those reliably believed to be organisers of Protestant para-military activity.

6. Indiscriminate 
operations, which do not distinguish between the terrorists and the population among whom they live, are self-defeating.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6221')
	Our ability to conduct successful operations against the terrorists depends fundamentally on intelligence. 
6. Indiscriminate 
operations, which do not distinguish between the terrorists and the population among whom they live, are self-defeating.

g. Political Involvement.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2294')
	g. Political Involvement. 
wish to consider how far they are prepared to associate themselves with controversial measures taken by the Northern Ireland Government. In itably the security forces would be involved to some degree; but there is a difference between assisting in rounding up and guarding internees and providing a Service facility for an internment site.

It has to be remembered that the substantial progress which has been made in Belfast, 
to be pursued with such vigour, that the number of effective terrorists remaining at large within the city can be gauged.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6778')
	It has to be remembered that the substantial progress which has been made in Belfast, 
to be pursued with such vigour, that the number of effective terrorists remaining at large within the city can be gauged.

and propaganda. 
We did not This is a war of nerves The terrorists have tried to play down the Your personal	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_152')
	ion. 
H.M.G. is satisfied with the outcome of the initial Some 300 suspects have been detained. 
disclose what the target number was. and propaganda. 
We did not This is a war of nerves The terrorists have tried to play down the

11. I am sorry that this decision will inevitably interfere 
with rights and tradition cherished by many people, but I must ask all concerned to accept it as truly necessary in the vital interests of the country.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2165')
	I am sorry that this decision will inevitably interfere 
with rights and tradition cherished by many people, but I must ask all concerned to accept it as truly necessary in the vital interests of the country.

The Attorney minutes that even in 1940 in the 
United Kingdom there were courts (admittely sitting in camera) which administered the criminal law (e.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_8006')
	The Attorney minutes that even in 1940 in the 
United Kingdom there were courts (admittely sitting in camera) which administered the criminal law (e.g., in the cases of spies); and a wholly separate administrative procedure whereby, on the authority of a Minister, persons suspected of disaffection were detained under Regulation 18B.

Y A STROKE OF THE P N REGULATIONS TO PERMIT II #ERWIENT ALREADY EXISTED AND WER USED EXTENSIVELY DURING TIE I- R.A. CAIPA IGN FROM 1956 T0 1961. MR. FAUL K SAID T1E OUTRAGES TO WHICH THE ULSTER 
PEOPLE HAD BEEN SUBJECTED No THFEATEED THEIR ECONOMIC LIFE A rD HE HAD CO-CLUDED THAT THE ORD IARY LAW COULD NOT DEAL COIIPREHENSIYELY OR QUICKLY ENOUjH WITh "SUCH RUTHLESS ViGCIOUJSIESS CHOR FOLLO S) 116	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2168')
	THE -INTRODUC -1-ON OF I NTE RN!A NT UNDER THE SPEC IAs PCE RS 
ACT NEEDED OI.Y A STROKE OF THE P N REGULATIONS TO PERMIT II #ERWIENT ALREADY EXISTED AND WER USED EXTENSIVELY DURING TIE I- R.A. CAIPA IGN FROM 1956 T0 1961. MR. FAUL K SAID T1E OUTRAGES TO WHICH THE ULSTER 
PEOPLE HAD BEEN SUBJECTED No THFEATEED THEIR ECONOMIC LIFE A rD HE HAD CO-CLUDED THAT THE ORD IARY LAW COULD NOT DEAL COIIPREHENSIYELY OR QUICKLY ENOUjH WITh "SUCH RUTHLESS ViGCIOUJSIESS

D BE GLA TO LIST0 TO WOAT 
THEY HAD TO SAY, OUT I DIDI r,’A’IT TO GIVE Tilf"1 OR AidYOnE ELSE THE IDEA THAT WE WERE WI1ING TO NFCT’l ATE WITH THE IRA THROUGH TIE 
7. £ IlAVE KHOWN FOR SCiE TIME, itb 1 eiI1 
A’?	('PREM_15_1016', 'IMG_8672')
	I SAID THAT AS ALHAY’,S I SAID THAT THEY WOULD hAVE ANOTH FR 
TALK WITH THEIR PROVISIONAL IRA COITACTS AND WOULD THE; t.IKE TO SEE PE AGAIN. NUCH WOULD DEPEOD ON ’WIETi’El MACSTI’;FAIN STAYED IN FRISO OR NOT. 
:L.Ot.D BE GLA TO LIST0 TO WOAT 
THEY HAD TO SAY, OUT I DIDI r,’A’IT TO GIVE Tilf"1 OR AidYOnE ELSE THE IDEA THAT WE WERE WI1ING TO NFCT’l ATE WITH THE IRA THROUGH TIE

The Secretary of State would 2. Anyone arrested, except under (c) 
expect the number of arrests of such persons to be small.]	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1760')
	anyone who is reliably known to be in possession of information which he is likely to divulge under questioning about persons holding the most senior ranks in the IRA or the whereabouts of stores of arms and ammunition. 
The Secretary of State would 2. Anyone arrested, except under (c) 
expect the number of arrests of such persons to be small.]

The leaders of this campaign are using every technique available to 
bypass the ordinary processes of democracy and to over-ride the wishes of the great majority of law-abiding citizens.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5588')
	The leaders of this campaign are using every technique available to 
bypass the ordinary processes of democracy and to over-ride the wishes of the great majority of law-abiding citizens.

Ministers in Westminster will 
Great Britain and the Isle of Man 3. 
On Home Office advice the use of Great Britain either in 
terms of prisons or other accommodation or even the use of a Great Britain anchorage has been ruled out because legislation at Westminster would be required to enable internees to be accommodated in this country or in its territorial waters.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2294')
	On Home Office advice the use of Great Britain either in 
terms of prisons or other accommodation or even the use of a Great Britain anchorage has been ruled out because legislation at Westminster would be required to enable internees to be accommodated in this country or in its territorial waters. (under existing law prisoners in Northern Ireland can only be transferred to prisons in Great Britain at their own request) The Isle of Man has also been ruled out: not only would legislation in Northern Ireland end the Isle of Man be necessary, but any scheme would also need prior discussion and agreement with the Isle of Man Government, which is highly unlikely to be forthcoming

I 
repeat that internment is being confined to members of unlawful associations committed to violence against whom the ordinary law has, in present circumstances, proved ineffective.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5591')
	There are criminals in both communities who may have 
committed serious offences during the disturbances of recent years. They are subject to the same rigours of the law as any other criminal and many so-called extreme Protestants are at present serving heavy sentences. Others who may have taken part in recent disturbances will be brought to justice when they have been identified and the facts investigated. 
I 
repeat that internment is being confined to members of unlawful associations committed to violence against whom the ordinary law has, in present circumstances, proved ineffective.

No matter how marked or general may be the RC 
community’s rejection of IRA violence, there is likely to remain an element within that community which is implacably and historically opposed to the British connection and accustomed to violence as a means of demonstrating its conviction.	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1626')
	No matter how marked or general may be the RC 
community’s rejection of IRA violence, there is likely to remain an element within that community which is implacably and historically opposed to the British connection and accustomed to violence as a means of demonstrating its conviction. This element could numerically be strengthened if former detainees wore released under the Emergency Provisions Bill review procedure.

On the 
introduction of internment two operations of interrogation in depth took place involving the use of these techniques.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5002')
	On the 
introduction of internment two operations of interrogation in depth took place involving the use of these techniques. 
In August 1971 12 detainees and in 
October 1971 two detainees were interrogated in depth. 20 
was obtained: (1) 
As a direct result of these two operations the following new information 
Identification of a further 700 members of both IRA factions, and their positions in the organisations. 
(2) (3) 
Over 40 sheets giving details of the organisation and structure of IRA units and sub-units. 
Details of possible IRA operations; arms caches; safe houses; communications and supply routes, including those across the border; and locations of wanted persons.

It was not true that the SDLP had achieved nothing; some 700 out of 1,000 internees had already been released.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7951')
	It was not true that the SDLP had achieved nothing; some 700 out of 1,000 internees had already been released. 
The SDLP should not 
underestimate the strength of the views opposing them and the Secretary of State. They must also remember that as a member of the Cabinet he was not an entirely free agent. An immediate total response to the SDLP demands was not possible, but without any commitment hatever he did not rule out the possibility of taking some action to meet their demands.

Dublin REF BELFAST (Personal) M.I.F.T.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2214')
	M.I.F.T. contains draft of the be made KREP Belfast asking Mr. Lynch to introduce 
internment in the Republic in parallel with action by HMG

For this purpose prompt intelligence is indispensable; and it would be unfair (to put it no more strongly) to our own Forces to forgo any permissible means of securing such intelligence.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5232')
	For this purpose prompt intelligence is indispensable; and it would be unfair (to put it no more strongly) to our own Forces to forgo any permissible means of securing such intelligence.

3. In discussion the point was made that the arrest of even 
minor IRA members helped to build up the intelligence picture and to contribute to the attrition of the IRA; it could also lead to more important arrests.	('PREM_15_1007', 'IMG_7485')
	In discussion the point was made that the arrest of even 
minor IRA members helped to build up the intelligence picture and to contribute to the attrition of the IRA; it could also lead to more important arrests.

WERE A TOTAL BREAKDOWN OF THE SYSTEM OF JUSTICE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_229')
	HE COULD INTRODUCE IT AS A DRASTIC MEASURE IF THERE.WERE A TOTAL BREAKDOWN OF THE SYSTEM OF JUSTICE.

recommendations made by Mr Roderick Bowen QC in a report on the procedures for the arrest, interrogation and detention of suspected terrorists in Aden (Cmnd 3165). Action by the Government 16. 
The Government reject any suggestion that the methods currently 
authorised for interrogation contain any element of cruelty or brutality.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5165')
	recommendations made by Mr Roderick Bowen QC in a report on the procedures for the arrest, interrogation and detention of suspected terrorists in Aden (Cmnd 3165).

MR FAULKNER HAD INDICATED AT HIS PRESS CONFERENCE AFTER THE TRIPARTITE MEETINGS THAT ALTHOUGH THE COMMITTEE WAS AN ADVISORY ONE HE WOULD EXPECT TO TAKE ITS ADVICE.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6235')
	MR FAULKNER HAD INDICATED AT HIS PRESS CONFERENCE AFTER THE TRIPARTITE MEETINGS THAT ALTHOUGH THE COMMITTEE WAS AN ADVISORY ONE HE WOULD EXPECT TO TAKE ITS ADVICE.

The 
security forces are accordingly arresting and detaining people suspected of responsibility for committing or abetting acts of terrorism and other breaches of the peace designed to lead to a breakdown of law and order in Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_185')
	The 
security forces are accordingly arresting and detaining people suspected of responsibility for committing or abetting acts of terrorism and other breaches of the peace designed to lead to a breakdown of law and order in Northern Ireland.

The fact that some of the prisoners involved in the Mountjoy Prison 
riot have been removed to the Curragh has led to charges that internment is being introduced by the back door, but this was denied by the Minister for Justice, Mr O’Malley.	('PREM_15_1008', 'IMG_7553')
	The fact that some of the prisoners involved in the Mountjoy Prison 
riot have been removed to the Curragh has led to charges that internment is being introduced by the back door, but this was denied by the Minister for Justice, Mr O’Malley.

But should it not add that this means, so far as the Government are concerned, that there can be no question of ending internment unilaterally, i.e.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6459')
	But should it not add that this means, so far as the Government are concerned, that there can be no question of ending internment unilaterally, i.e. so long as violence persists ?

If such a situation arose the natter would need to be reconsidered.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7701')
	or a situation night arise in which a spate of civil actions gave rise to serious problems in relation to the disclosure of the identity of those involved in security operations. 
If such a situation arose the natter would need to be reconsidered.

The point must also be made that there are some who do not wish internment to work but who wish to see subversive organisations succeed in their aim of procuring constitutional changes that are contrary to the wishes of a majority in the community.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4973')
	The point must also be made that there are some who do not wish internment to work but who wish to see subversive organisations succeed in their aim of procuring constitutional changes that are contrary to the wishes of a majority in the community.

How long anyone will be interned 
will depend on two factors; namely, the credibility of any undertaking an individual may give as to his future behaviour if he were to be released in advance of any general release, and in the other cases, the restoration of normal law and order in the community.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5592')
	How long anyone will be interned 
will depend on two factors; namely, the credibility of any undertaking an individual may give as to his future behaviour if he were to be released in advance of any general release, and in the other cases, the restoration of normal law and order in the community.

Co1 t to ^^f r.at :v-efx’ T -de h.ve boon GIVn t-hfolowItl; infomation by th Nrthern Irclund 
Covemment in Connection with todny*a Fras Report appoaring in the N.ornin; star abaut coaditiona at LongKeh.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5722')
	Co1 t to ^^f r.at :v-efx’ T -de h.ve boon GIVn t-hfolowItl; infomation by th Nrthern Irclund 
Covemment in Connection with todny*a Fras Report appoaring in the N.ornin; star abaut coaditiona at LongKeh. 
’here -ro 40 on at preoent accoanodated in hut* originally l;nmned for 
34, but only parts of the crmp uve been coapleted on1 it in ereated that with the comploticn of furthor buildin, work In a fortnigbt’ timthia poition ill be rlt edvL 
14hto thorufore hao 
Co.ng i.s not done by electricity Hlat. by..calor gas. and the un of sorch no ffect on the power availzblo n theo 
.- houcobt 
there are electric hotplatea in the meca hall* and those doveloped a fault yecaterday hilch waa put rIght today. 
acez are standard arg. issiue. 4. 
(zClotn’ nternoea were allowod to bring with them all the clothina they had in ’heir- 
posotwionz. Those uha wioh to obtain a chnm of clotha ctn do so by havbin other c’armenta brou ht in by relations or frienda; alternativelyit thia is not josible clothing is lsued to them. 
5. 
:t;Thy were allowed to tUe in with the books they olready po=nesed and 
further auppla aro .bein- provided at L4on3 Korh a aoo a posible. 75 ews. papera are beins provided free of chAre dr.ly.

I understand that the Secretary of State 
remains unwilling to reintroduce internment but may be prepared to make detention orders for periods of up to 28 days on a fairly wide scale; and the Attorney General may say that the existing provisions of the Special Powers Acts suffice to make this legal, provided that interrogation is continued throughout this period.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7796')
	Internment or detention. I understand that the Secretary of State 
remains unwilling to reintroduce internment but may be prepared to make detention orders for periods of up to 28 days on a fairly wide scale; and the Attorney General may say that the existing provisions of the Special Powers Acts suffice to make this legal, provided that interrogation is continued throughout this period.

In order to minimize these reactions certain steps can, however, be taken 
(1) The need for internment to continue may have to be spelt out more effectively.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6968')
	The need for internment to continue may have to be spelt out more effectively. For this purpose it is proposed to give as much publicity as possible 
to a general defence of the policy and to the correcting of some of the grosser forms of misrepresentation to which it has been subjected.

The Government have taken this decision after consultation with their military advisers.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7214')
	The Government have taken this decision after consultation with their military advisers.

The Commission was asked to find out whether terrorist activity could be dealt with by the criminal courts.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9320')
	The Commission was asked to find out whether terrorist activity could be dealt with by the criminal courts. In December 1972 they reported that, because witnesses were intimidated or afraid to give evidence, no criminal procedure which satisfied the requirements of Article 6 of the European Convention of Human Rights could effectively bring terrorists to justice.

I warn you that if you resist arrest you may be 
committing an offence". 4. 
After the person has been arrested,	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2183')
	When arresting a person under this order the soldier making the 
arrest is to say "I am arresting you under the powers conferred by the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act(orthern Irelad) 1922". If the person arrested questions the authority for the arrest eg by asking what offence he has committed or under what Regulation he is arrested the soldier making the arrest is to. say "I am not required to give any further explanation. 
I warn you that if you resist arrest you may be 
committing an offence".

It was also important that prompt action should be taken to set up the advisory committee for hearing representations against internment orders.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5872')
	It was also important that prompt action should be taken to set up the advisory committee for hearing representations against internment orders.

THERE IS AN INHERENT RISK THAT ANY INTERNEE RELEASED AS A POLITICAL GESTURE WILL RETURN TO HIS PREVIOUS ACTIVITIES IN NORTHERN IRELAND, REPAIRING THE SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE WHICH HAS BEEN INFLICTED ON BOTH FACTIONS OF THE IRA SINCE 9 AUG 71. 3. THE PRIME TARGETS FOR RETALIATORY ACTION BY INTERNEES AFTER RELEASE ARE UNDOUBTEDLY THE MEMBERS OF THE SPECIAL BRANCH OF THE PUC: THESE ARE FOR THE MOST PART KNOWN TO THOSE INTERNES WHOM THEY HAVE ARRESTED OR INTERROGATED.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6772')
	ALL THE INTERNEES ARE MEMBERS OF THE IRA: CONSEQUENTLY THERE IS NO POOL OF INTERNEES WHO ARE MERELY POLITICAL ACTIVISTS. THERE IS AN INHERENT RISK THAT ANY INTERNEE RELEASED AS A POLITICAL GESTURE WILL RETURN TO HIS PREVIOUS ACTIVITIES IN NORTHERN IRELAND, REPAIRING THE SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE WHICH HAS BEEN INFLICTED ON BOTH FACTIONS OF THE IRA SINCE 9 AUG 71. 3. THE PRIME TARGETS FOR RETALIATORY ACTION BY INTERNEES AFTER RELEASE ARE UNDOUBTEDLY THE MEMBERS OF THE SPECIAL BRANCH OF THE PUC: THESE ARE FOR THE MOST PART KNOWN TO THOSE INTERNES WHOM THEY HAVE ARRESTED OR INTERROGATED.

3. 
The reaction on the part of the minority to the decision to ban the 
marches, starting with the Apprentice Boys, has been disappointing.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5885')
	The reaction on the part of the minority to the decision to ban the 
marches, starting with the Apprentice Boys, has been disappointing.

THERE IS ALSO THE FACT THAT THE INTIMIDATION OF THE POPULATION BY THE TERRORISTS HAS BEEN INCREASINGLY HAMPERING THE PROCESS OF GATHERING.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_180')
	THERE IS ALSO THE FACT THAT THE INTIMIDATION OF THE POPULATION BY THE TERRORISTS HAS BEEN INCREASINGLY HAMPERING THE PROCESS OF GATHERING. INTELLIGENCE, AND HAS IMPEDED THE COURSE OF JUSTICE.

One has only to look at the harm which is still being caused by those who have not yet been arrested, and by one or two of those who have escaped from detention, to gain some idea of what would be likely to happen if all those now in internment were to be suddenly released.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6633')
	One has only to look at the harm which is still being caused by those who have not yet been arrested, and by one or two of those who have escaped from detention, to gain some idea of what would be likely to happen if all those now in internment were to be suddenly released.

in effect, be an amnesty for those IRA men who had managed to evade capture until the date of the truce and who, if they had been captured, could only have been detained or interned under the Special Powers Act, since there was insufficient evidence against them to bring a criminal charge.	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1796')
	in effect, be an amnesty for those IRA men who had managed to evade capture until the date of the truce and who, if they had been captured, could only have been detained or interned under the Special Powers Act, since there was insufficient evidence against them to bring a criminal charge.

on marches and parades of all- kinds; and we have made clear our present view that that ben will need to remain force as long as internment lasts, although the extension after six months remains formally open for discussion 
We realise , of course, 
that these decisions carry their dangers as well as their advantages in Nothern Ireland 
and I am also very well aware of their implications for the Irish Repbublic.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2196')
	For our part, we have made it clear that there could be no question of our accepting internment, and instructing 
our forces to help to implement it, if it was not accompanied. by a complete ban. on marches and parades of all- kinds; and we have made clear our present view that that ben will need to remain force as long as internment lasts,

2. WITH NO MORE INFORMATION THAN MR FAULKNER’S STATEMENT ABOUT DETENTION ORDERS TO GO ON, THE IMPRESSION AMONG MANY iN DUBLIN IS THAT THERE ARE STILL PERHAPS SOME 60 QUOTE POLITICALS UNQUOTE DETAINED ON UNKNOWN GROUNDS, UNLESS MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THE IDENTITIES OF THE DETAINESS IS PUBLISHED, THIS MISINTERPRETATION WILL PERSIST EVEN AMONGST THOSE 
UNDERSTAND WHY MR FAULKNER MUST KEEP IRA MEN LOCKED UP.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5755')
	UNLESS MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THE IDENTITIES OF THE DETAINESS IS PUBLISHED, THIS MISINTERPRETATION WILL PERSIST EVEN AMONGST THOSE 
UNDERSTAND WHY MR FAULKNER MUST KEEP IRA MEN LOCKED UP.

The Prime Minister asked the GCC what he thought the The G said 
that he doubted whether the internees would mend their ways.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6983')
	internees would do if they were released. 
The Prime Minister asked the GCC what he thought the The G said 
that he doubted whether the internees would mend their way

His 
krment would like to take these people into custody, tUman their activities were a flagrant breach of law 
and order.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4848')
	His 
krment would like to take these people into custody, tUman their activities were a flagrant breach of law 
and order.

Of course we should prefer to see these people prosecuted and convicted if that were possible; but quite obviously it is not, so long as intimidation remains rife.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6633')
	Of course we should prefer to see these people prosecuted and convicted if that were possible; but quite obviously it is not, so long as intimidation remains rife.

(b) In Northern Ireland in normal times the powers of the police and prison officers in relation to those in custody are substantially the same except for an immaterial difference in their Judges’ Rules.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5013')
	In Northern Ireland in normal times the powers of the police and prison officers in relation to those in custody are substantially the same except for an immaterial difference in their Judges’ Rules. 
Of 
the Regulations scheduled to the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act (Northern Ireland) 1922, Regulation 10 provides that ’Any officer of The Royal Ulster Constabulary, for the preservation of the peace and maintenance of order, may authorise the arrest without warrant and detention for a period of not more then 48 hours of any person for the purpose of interrogation’.

TO BEGIN WITH A TRIAL IN OPEN COURT AND A CROSS EXAMINATION OF WITNESSES BY LAWYERS WAS IN MY OPINION QUITE OUT OF THE QUESTION.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6133')
	TO BEGIN WITH A TRIAL IN OPEN COURT AND A CROSS EXAMINATION OF WITNESSES BY LAWYERS WAS IN MY OPINION QUITE OUT OF THE QUESTION.

It is hoped that the selection of individuals for 
questioning would now be considerably more accurate than in the internment operation of 9 August 1971; but it must be recognised that only a limited proportion of unlicensed arms (most of which are held by Roman Catholics) would be recovered.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_13')
	It is hoped that the selection of individuals for 
questioning would now be considerably more accurate than in the internment operation of 9 August 1971; but it must be recognised that only a limited proportion of unlicensed arms (most of which are held by Roman Catholics) would be recovered.

The Government of Northern Ireland has, with regret, deemed it 
necessary to intern people as a measure directed against organisations whose declared aim it is to overthrow the institutions of the state by violence, including indiscriminate attacks against the civilian population.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4972')
	The Government of Northern Ireland has, with regret, deemed it 
necessary to intern people as a measure directed against organisations whose declared aim it is to overthrow the institutions of the state by violence, including indiscriminate attacks against the civilian population.

in the fact that those who use or advocate violence destroy the prospects of peaceful co-operation in this direction.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5589')
	in the fact that those who use or advocate violence destroy the prospects of peaceful co-operation in this direction.

particularly in the case of the most important provisional IRA leaders.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7785')
	It will be possible to charge some with criminal offences under the ordinary law; but others and perhaps the most important of them are beyond the reach of the criminal law partly because witnesses cannot be expected to come forward to give oral evidence in the ordinary way, and partly because the evidence available to connect accused persons with specific offences as opposed to general complicity in terrorism is sometimes tenuous,particularly in the case of the most important provisional IRA leaders.

that they should have firm but fair discipline in all huts and ensure hands were visible". 
The military Police admit that exercises,	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4944')
	In turn spoke certainly to perhaps also 
to Staff Sergeant Love and passed on the briefing in terms;"because the men were carrying out the task unarmed, and were so few in any one hut, that they should have firm but fair discipline in all huts and ensure hands were visible".

LEGAL PROCEDURES 
10. Lord Diplock has presented the report of his Commission on legal procedures to deal with terrorist activities and the Government has announced its intention to implement his recommendations.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_160')
	Lord Diplock has presented the report of his Commission on legal procedures to deal with terrorist activities and the Government has announced its intention to implement his recommendations.

For any serious attempt to lock up the men of violence, Any search for additional 
premises might conflict with the Services’ need for extra accommodation.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_36')
	For any serious attempt to lock up the men of violence,

When asked whether he thought the time was near, he replied that 
he thought the time had come unless some other ne measure could be suggested.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2220')
	he thought the time had come unless some other ne measure could be suggested. He had discussed the situation with General Tuzo but did not see any other acceptable major initiative.

The GOC said that, at the time of the initial pick-up 
on 9-11 August, the army was obliged to do many things which would normally have fallen to the RUC but this had not occurred subsequently. 
It was agreed that as much	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6982')
	The GOC said that, at the time of the initial pick-up 
on 9-11 August, the army was obliged to do many things which would normally have fallen to the RUC but this had not occurred subsequently. 
It was agreed that as much

Northern Ireland, the Prime Minister sees considerable attracticn in a fairly open statement of support by the Pope for the White Paper proposals; and Pope Paul may be more willing to speak out if he can be persuaded that we have taken positive steps on internment.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9330')
	Northern Ireland, the Prime Minister sees considerable attracticn in a fairly open statement of support by the Pope for the White Paper proposals; and Pope Paul may be more willing to speak out if he can be persuaded that we have taken positive steps on internment.

The latest series of acts of terrorism by the I.R.A.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_189')
	The latest series of acts of terrorism by the I.R.A. and their recent.

The Prime Minister said that some thought was being given to ways of charging the internees and bringing them 
to trial.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6983')
	The Prime Minister said that some thought was being given to ways of charging the internees and bringing them 
to trial. 
been made by Mr. Phelim O’Neil that Judge Brown’s Committee should be worked up into a kind of special court, had some merit. 
The GCC said that the suggestion which had 
members of the IRA; two convictions had however recently been obtained for this. 
It was not easy to charge people with being

THE SECURITY FORCES ARE ACCORDINGLY ARRESTING AND DETAINING PEOPLE SUSPECTED OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMMITTING OR ABETTING ACTS OF TERRORISM AND OTHER BREACHES OF THE PEACE DESIGNED TO LEAD TO A BREAKDOWN OF LAW AND ORDER iN NORTHERN IRELAND.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_175')
	THE SECURITY FORCES ARE ACCORDINGLY ARRESTING AND DETAINING PEOPLE SUSPECTED OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMMITTING OR ABETTING ACTS OF TERRORISM AND OTHER BREACHES OF THE PEACE DESIGNED TO LEAD TO A BREAKDOWN OF LAW AND ORDER iN NORTHERN IRELAND.

The Secretary of State said that he had thought over what the SDLP had said to him the previous day.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7951')
	The Secretary of State said that he had thought over what the SDLP had said to him the previous day. As an earnest of his intentions he had just signed release orders for 47 internees. It would be said that he had been persuaded by the SDLP and had done a deal with them, but he was prepared to accept that.

Wesshould put individuals in peril; and prejudice the sources of the information.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6305')
	Wesshould put individuals in peril; and prejudice the sources of the information.

are 
(a) These principles 
Persons taking no active part in hostilities shall in all circumstances be treated humanely without any adverse distinction founded on race, colour, religion or faith, sex, birth, wealth or any other similar criteria. 
(b) The following acts are prohibited 
(i) Violence to life and person, in particular mutilation, cruel treatment and torture;	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5026')
	Broad principles for the treatment of persons under arrest or detention 
during civil disturbances are laid down in Article 3 of The Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War (1949). 
Military personnel 
will follow these principles when conducting interrogation. are 
(a) These principles 
Persons taking no active part in hostilities shall in all circumstances be treated humanely without any adverse distinction founded on race, colour, religion or faith, sex, birth, wealth or any other similar criteria.

It is HMG’s intention to release as soon as possible 
those internees about whom there is a reasonable degree of doubt as to the danger to security that their release would pose.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7253')
	It is HMG’s intention to release as soon as possible 
those internees about whom there is a reasonable degree of doubt as to the danger to security that their release would pose. 
Their release will be conditional on an undertaking 
not to take part in or encourage violence or illegal action.

Rules for the internal 
administration of internment camps had been drafted but there was some uncertainty about powers to interrogate on which the advice of the AttorneyGeneral was being sought.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2210')
	Any 
new draft regulations required for this purpose could now be prepared for immediate signature if and when the need arose. 
Rules for the internal 
administration of internment camps had been drafted

The authorisation to carry out the arrest must come from an officer of the RUC of the rank of Superintendent or above and should be in writing.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1807')
	The authorisation to carry out the arrest must come from an officer of the RUC of the rank of Superintendent or above and should be in writing. The formula at paragraph 4 of the Blue Card must be used.

The two Governments have now agreed that, from amongst those of the internees whose release has not been recommended, but who are recognised by the security forces as constituting a lesser degree of risk [x] should forthwith be released as an earnest of the desire to reverse the entire cycle of violence and the counter-measures taken to deal with it.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7246')
	The two Governments have now agreed that, from amongst those of the internees whose release has not been recommended, but who are recognised by the security forces as constituting a lesser degree of risk [x] should forthwith be released as an earnest of the desire to reverse the entire cycle of violence and the counter-measures taken to deal with it.

There comes a stage when a government cannot afford to wait until known terrorists choose the moment to strike.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5590')
	There comes a stage when a government cannot afford to wait until known terrorists choose the moment to strike.

List 3, 2. -: 
with abo;t 12( ames, is of those In respect of v cm there is reliable intelligenoe ind4ating their ivolvemt in the ecamszan of orines but indtricient eidene to support a proseeution.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1868')
	List 3, 2. -: 
with abo;t 12( ames, is of those In respect of v cm there is reliable intelligenoe ind4ating their ivolvemt in the ecamszan of orines but indtricient eidene to support a proseeution.

Many members of the minority community would be relieved at the removal of IRA terrorists from their midst.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5871')
	Many members of the minority community would be relieved at the removal of IRA terrorists from their midst.

A similar view has been reached by officials in the report now Officials point out that the question of 
indemnity only arises when the wide powers conferred under the Special Powers Acts are exceeded;	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_175')
	Officials point out that the question of 
indemnity only arises when the wide powers conferred under the Special Powers Acts are exceeded; that there are obvious objections to the enactment of a general indemnity before order has been restored and all detainees released; and that any form of indemnity which appreciably abridges existing domestic remedies in respect of the breaches of the Human Rights Convention alleged by the Government of the Republic would undermine our case against the admissibility of the allegations before the Commission at Strasbourg

As I understand 
it, this body is considering what arrangements for the administration of justice in Northern Ireland could be made in order to deal more effectively with terrorist organisations by bringing to book, otherwise 
proscribing the I.R.A.	('PREM_15_1016', 'IMG_8589')
	Then we have to bear in mind the Diplock enquiry. As I understand 
it, this body is considering what arrangements for the administration of justice in Northern Ireland could be made in order to deal more effectively with terrorist organisations by bringing to book, otherwise

Much of it is simply not up to the standards of evidence required in the courts.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6305')
	First, the reason for interment is simply that while a good 
deal is known about active IRA members, the evidence, such as it is, 
would not inimost cases stand up in court. Examples are attached of the kind of information which is known about individuals. Much of it is simply not up to the standards of evidence required in the courts.

(c) (d) 
Continue the policy of selective arrests and Increase the presence at, and control movement Implement Op LINGO for 72 hours.	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1476')
	Continue the policy of selective arrests and

The Home Secretary told Mr. Faulkner that he proposed that Sir Edmund Compton 
be asked to carry on dealing with complaints from persons arrested with a view to internment.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6261')
	The Home Secretary told Mr. Faulkner that he proposed that Sir Edmund Compton 
be asked to carry on dealing with complaints from persons arrested with a view to internment. This, together with the arrangements which were being made for a Board of Visitors to hear complaints of people once they were received into prison, should fill the gap which had been criticised.

They are correct u to 2 March. 
arrested 
released without detention order released after detention order escaped from detention 
released after consideration by 
Advisory Commiittee others released from internment 
escaped from internment 1.568 148 10 44 4 1 
1,775 869 
held under Pegulation 10 held under detention order interned 
55 129 
685 869 
2,644 The latest complete figures for those arrested in Northern	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6913')
	Ireland under th Special Powers Act are as follows. They are correct u to 2 March. 
arrested 
released without detention order released after detention order escaped from detention 
released after consideration by 
Advisory Commiittee others released from internment 
escaped from internment 1.568 148 10 44 4 1 
1,775 869 
held under Pegulation 10 held under detention order interned 
55 129 
685 869 
2,644 The latest complete figures for those arrested in Northern

3. 
and as not in itself constituting any formal change of arrest policy, since any interim custody orders would be incidental to action taken 
The Secretary of State evidently regarded this decision as a first step against 
suspected murderers and terrorists.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1800')
	and as not in itself constituting any formal change of arrest policy, since any interim custody orders would be incidental to action taken 
The Secretary of State evidently regarded this decision as a first step against 
suspected murderers and terrorists.

asking whether Father Fall now intends to complain to the medical authorities in Dublin about the conduct of the doctor at the Infirmary in Dundalk (para 5 above). 
Senior Prison Governor for Long Kesh 9. 
The GOC has welcomed the move reported in Report No 78,	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6742')
	Senior Prison Governor for Long Kesh 9. 
The GOC has welcomed the move reported in Report No 78, at para 9 
he agrees that it holds promise of achieving a more professional approach to the custody and treatment of internees, which was one of the main objectives that the GOC had in mind when he proposed the appointment of a director of internment 
necessary in different constitutional circmstances. - a post which might still be

At the time of the introduction of internment last August the Northern Ireland Government acting with the full support of the Government in London 
- imposed a total ban on marches in 
order to reduce the risk of provocation by members of one community towards those of another.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6613')
	At the time of the introduction of internment last August the Northern Ireland Government acting with the full support of the Government in London 
- imposed a total ban on marches in 
order to reduce the risk of provocation by members of one community towards those of another.

13. The main law and order functions are police; prisons (including internment camps); the functions of the Attorney-General in relation to prosecutions; judicial appointments; and the exercise for so long as necessary of the Special Powers Act.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6810')
	The main law and order functions are police; prisons (including internment camps); the functions of the Attorney-General in relation to prosecutions; judicial appointments; and the exercise for so long as necessary of the Special Powers Act.

HE WILL CONTINUE TO DO SO, BUT WHAT HE CAN DO MUST DEPEND IN LARGE DEGREE ON WHAT THE CATHOLIC COMMUNITY AND OTHERS CAN DO TO ISCLATE AND THUS DEFEAT THE IRA.	('PREM_15_1007', 'IMG_7450')
	DESPITE MANY PRESSURES THE SECRETARY OF STATE HAS STUCK TO THE POLICY OF RUNNING DOWN INTErNMENT. HE WILL CONTINUE TO DO SO, BUT WHAT HE CAN DO MUST DEPEND IN LARGE DEGREE ON WHAT THE CATHOLIC COMMUNITY AND OTHERS CAN DO TO ISCLATE AND THUS DEFEAT THE IRA.

THE EFFECT OF THESE TWO FACTORS COULD WELL BE TO INCREASE IRA RESISTANCE TO INTERROGATION AND AT THE SAME TIME TO WEAKEN THE DETERMINATION OF MEMBERS OF THE BRANCH TO PURSUE INTERROGATION TO SUCCESS.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6772')
	THE EFFECT OF THESE TWO FACTORS COULD WELL BE TO INCREASE IRA RESISTANCE TO INTERROGATION AND AT THE SAME TIME TO WEAKEN THE DETERMINATION OF MEMBERS OF THE BRANCH TO PURSUE INTERROGATION TO SUCCESS.

While he reaffirmed the constitutional position of Northern Ireland as part of the United Kingdom, he made a point of denying emphatically that internment was aimed at repressing the Roman Catholic community and said that he would continue to consider still further measures which would give the parliamentary Opposition greater participation in the running of Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5838')
	While he reaffirmed the constitutional position of Northern Ireland as part of the United Kingdom, he made a point of denying emphatically that internment was aimed at repressing the Roman Catholic community and said that he would continue to consider still further measures which would give the parliamentary Opposition greater participation in the running of Northern Ireland.

NORTHERN IRELAND PART I : THE PLAN 
1 . A new policy for Northern Ireland might be made up of the 
following elements:periodic referenda; 
changes in the size, composition and method of election to the Northern Ireland Parliament, on the lines proposed in the Northern Ireland Government’s Green Paper; 
provision for community government; 
possible changes in responsibility for law and order, including a move towards running down internment.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6806')
	possible changes in responsibility for law and order, including a move towards running down internment.

The information on which recommendations for internment 
are made by the RUC Special Branch is naturally held by the Special Branch themselves.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6917')
	The information on which recommendations for internment 
are made by the RUC Special Branch is naturally held by the Special Branch themselves. 
But a senior Army intelligence 
officer has always had complete access to these records; and he is satisfied that, subject to two reservations, virtually all the internees are IRA members. 
The first is that three 
of the internees cannot be assigned to specific appointments in the IRA’s order of battle, though the dossiers concerned show that the Special Branch regard two of them as members of the IRA and the third as having strong links with the IRA. The other reservation is that one cannot entirely rule out the possibility that in a few cases the information provided to the Special Branch might have been prompted by personal spite, 
or something similar, on the part of the informants.

6. MR WHITELAW REITERATED THAT IT WAS HMG’S POLICY TO END INTERNMENT AS SOON AS THE SECURITY SITUATION ALTERED, AND HE EXPLAINED THE DIFFICULTIES IN THIS (APART OF COURSE FROM THAT OF THE MORALE OF PART OF THE SECURITY FORCES). 
HE WOULD DISCUSS THE POINTS PUT FORWARD BY THE SDLP WITH THE PRIME MINISTER.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7886')
	MR WHITELAW REITERATED THAT IT WAS HMG’S POLICY TO END INTERNMENT AS SOON AS THE SECURITY SITUATION ALTERED, AND HE EXPLAINED THE DIFFICULTIES IN THIS (APART OF COURSE FROM THAT OF THE MORALE OF PART OF THE SECURITY FORCES).

It is HMG’s clear intention to bring internment to an 
end, when respect for the law and a normal situation of order have been restored throughout the Province.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7253')
	It is HMG’s clear intention to bring internment to an 
end, when respect for the law and a normal situation of order have been restored throughout the Province.

A personal explanation from you of what we have done on internment will make much more of an impact on the Pope than Mr. Crawley’s discussions with Vatican officials.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9334')
	A personal explanation from you of what we have done on internment will make much more of an impact on the Pope than Mr. Crawley’s discussions with Vatican officials. 
Subject to Mr. Whitelaw’s views, 
there is considerable attraction in a fairly open statement of support by the Pope for the White Paper proposals; and he may be more willing to speak out if he can be persuaded that we have taken positive steps on internment.

If he wishes to have legal advice in submitting a written case 
he may do so and the Government has arranged that financial arrangements similar to those available under the legal aid scheme will be applicable.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5591')
	It will be open to any internee, and all have been informed of their 
rights, to put his case to the Committee, verbally or in writing, or by both means. 
If he wishes to have legal advice in submitting a written case 
he may do so and the Government has arranged that financial arrangements similar to those available under the legal aid scheme will be applicable.

ANC ACCO:PANYING THAT HAS 
PEEN’ AN UT TERLY U’SCFUPULCUS PROPAGANCA CAMPAIGN.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6925')
	ANC ACCO:PANYING THAT HAS 
PEEN’ AN UT TERLY U’SCFUPULCUS PROPAGANCA CAMPAIGN

Secondly, that if in fact 
they do so, the case for re-interning them is very much stronger.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7251')
	Such an oath or declaration is important for two 
reasons. Firstin order to counter the accusation from the RUC and others that we are releasing men who have given no undertaking that they would not immediately rejoin the active ranks ofthe IRA. 
Secondly, that if in fact 
they do so, the case for re-interning them is very much stronger.

5. When Faulkner came to London last week,-he told us that he had come to the inclusion that internment was now the right and indeed inevitable course.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_189')
	When Faulkner came to London last week,-he told us that he had come to the inclusion that internment was now the right and indeed inevitable course.

It is agreed that a beginning 
should be made with a phasing out of internment, which would continue subject to a satisfactory diminution of violence.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7226')
	Internment. 
It is agreed that a beginning 
should be made with a phasing out of internment, which would continue subject to a satisfactory diminution of violence.

These include the problem of preventing the intimidation of witnesses who may be in danger of their lives if they give evidence in court; the problem of arresting and bringing to trial many of those who, although responsible for organising and directing terrorism themselves take care to avoid so far as possible engaging in terrorist operations of a criminal character. Until these and other problems in this field can be solved, it is not	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8056')
	Nevertheless, certain basic problems of countering terrorism by the normal processes of law still present difficulties. These include the problem of preventing the intimidation of witnesses who may be in danger of their lives if they give evidence in court; the problem of arresting and bringing to trial many of those who, although responsible for organising and directing terrorism themselves take care to avoid so far as possible engaging in terrorist operations of a criminal character. Until these and other problems in this field can be solved, it is not

There would be a right of appeal to the Court of Appeal in Northern Ireland sitting in camera. 
It might be argued that if special courts can be instituted in the manner described, the concept should be	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7787')
	There would be a right of appeal to the Court of Appeal in Northern Ireland sitting in camera. 
It might be argued that if special courts can be instituted in the manner described, the concept should be

A WARRANT HAS BEEN ’ISSUE FOR GALLAGHER’S ARREST ON A HE IS A NATIVE OF STRABANE AND WAS ON THE THIS IS A CASE IN WHICH 
THE EVIDENCE COULD CERTAINLY B EXPECTED TO STAND UP IN AN IMPARTIAL COURT OF LAW.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5687')
	CHARGE OF MURDER. LIST OF THOSE WANTED FOR INTER KENT. 
A WARRANT HAS BEEN ’ISSUE FOR GALLAGHER’S ARREST ON A HE IS A NATIVE OF STRABANE AND WAS ON THE THIS IS A CASE IN WHICH 
THE EVIDENCE COULD CERTAINLY B EXPECTED TO STAND UP IN AN IMPARTIAL COURT OF LAW.

The more quickly terrorist activity 
by the IRA subsides, the more rapid will be the pace of release; but any increase in IRA activity will delay the process.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7231')
	The more quickly terrorist activity 
by the IRA subsides, the more rapid will be the pace of release; but any increase in IRA activity will delay the process.

5. If, in an exceptional case, it is not possible for a member of the RUC 
to carry out an arrest, the soldier may still use Regulation 11 under the SPA if a criminal offence has been committed but there is doubt whether common and statute law powers of arrest apply.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1894')
	If, in an exceptional case, it is not possible for a member of the RUC 
to carry out an arrest, the soldier may still use Regulation 11 under the SPA if a criminal offence has been committed but there is doubt whether common and statute law powers of arrest apply. These powers apply essentially to the apprehension of a wrongdoer red-handed, whereas the powers under Regulation 11 entitle a soldier to arrest on suspicion.

But the terrorist 
campaign continues at an unacceptable level, and I have had to conclude that the ordinary law cannot deal comprehensively or quickly enough with such ruthless viciousness.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5162')
	But the terrorist 
campaign continues at an unacceptable level, and I have had to conclude that the ordinary law cannot deal comprehensively or quickly enough with such ruthless viciousness.

The nternenjsittion 
Is there something to be said for a stadingcmmdission (Par ienthe implementation of the refor 
C. 
(1) Speed upte appeals procedure.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6185')
	The nternenjsittion 
Is there something to be said for a stadingcmmdission (Par ienthe implementation of the refor 
C. 
(1) Speed upte appeals procedure. (2) Make clear, in a single, comprehensive, public statement how the 
appeals procedure wor.ks and what has been done to ensure that it approximates as closely as possible to a court (access to documents. legal representation etc.). Emphasise that its findings wilalmost always be accepted by the Government.

Service and police personnel could appear The court 
would, however, have to know the identity of the witness and ought to be given the power to decide in each case whether it was justifiable that this procedure should be followed.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4975')
	The court 
would, however, have to know the identity of the witness and ought to be given the power to decide in each case whether it was justifiable that this procedure should be followed

Some might also 
be engaged in more reputable political activity but this was not a reason for their internment. 
the people arrested would be those suspected of IRA activities few of whm As the terrorism was conducted by the IRA it followed that	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_144')
	The Home Secretary 
replied that all those arrested under the internment operation were people who the security forces believed to be active in terrorism. 
Some might also 
be engaged in more reputable political activity but this was not a reason for their internment. 
the people arrested would be those suspected of IRA activities few of whm As the terrorism was conducted by the IRA it followed that

however, the space would be inadequate.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_36')
	however, the space would be inadequate.

Clearly the effectiveness of internment in Northern Ireland could have been increased if you had felt able to take similar measures on your side of the border. 
from our Ambassador’s report of his recent talk with you But I judged	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_186')
	Clearly the effectiveness of internment in Northern Ireland could have been increased if you had felt able to take similar measures on your side of the border. 
from our Ambassador’s report of his recent talk with you But I judged

PlAnned Arrest 4. 
Where a person is searched and a weapon 
of planning can vary between many days and a few rinutes but it is most important that the formula on the Blue Card i. used in every case; and it is as well to nominate the soldier who is to 
Theme are normally made under the SPA powers.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1828')
	of planning can vary between many days and a few rinutes but it is most important that the formula on the Blue Card i. used in every case; and it is as well to nominate the soldier who is to 
Theme are normally made under the SPA powers. The degree

RESPONSIBLE POLITICAL INITIATIVES ARE OF NO INTEREST TO THE IRA:- WHAT THEY WANT IS SURRENDER.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6926')
	THAT IS WHY IT IS VITALLY IMPORTANT 
- IN WHATEVER TALK THERE IS ABOUT 
POLITICAL MOVES - TO MAKE IT CLEAR THAT IN NO SENSE WILL THE IRA BE ALLOWED TO WIN. RESPONSIBLE POLITICAL INITIATIVES ARE OF NO INTEREST TO THE IRA:- WHAT THEY WANT IS SURRENDER.

19. In the event of a more pronounced lull in terrorism 
may well be a case for some acceleration in the rate of release of internees 
- it will of course be important to know a good deal 
about how relatively dangerous each of them is.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6716')
	In the event of a more pronounced lull in terrorism 
may well be a case for some acceleration in the rate of release of internees 
- it will of course be important to know a good deal 
about how relatively dangerous each of them is.

8. THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNMENT NORTH OF THE BORDER WOULD BE GREATER IF THE IRISH GOVERNMENT WERE PREPARED TO INTRODUCE INTERNMENT SOUTH OF THE BORDER AT THE SAME TIME: BUT ALL THAT WE KNOW OF THE IRISH GOVERNMENT’S POLICIES SUGGESTS THAT THERE IS NO POSSIBILITY OF PARALLEL ACTION SOUTH OF THE BORDER.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_181')
	THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNMENT NORTH OF THE BORDER WOULD BE GREATER IF THE IRISH GOVERNMENT WERE PREPARED TO INTRODUCE INTERNMENT SOUTH OF THE BORDER AT THE SAME TIME: BUT ALL THAT WE KNOW OF THE IRISH GOVERNMENT’S POLICIES SUGGESTS THAT THERE IS NO POSSIBILITY OF PARALLEL ACTION SOUTH OF THE BORDER.

9. 
THERE WILL BE MANY WHO WILL CALL FOR 
THE MARCHES DUE IN DERRY ON 12 AUGUST AND IN BELFAST AN ADVISORY 
I REGRET NO LESS THAN YOU THAT THESE NEW MEASURES HAVE BEEN 
FOUND NECESSARY.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	THE MARCHES DUE IN DERRY ON 12 AUGUST AND IN BELFAST

We have also to decide whether, given the Attorney General’s judgment that some 30 pending prosecutions will have to be abandoned, the persons concerned should be re-arrested under the Special Powers Act (paragraph 4). Several of those whose arrests on 9th August, 1971, were judged invalid on purely technical grounds were immediately re-arrested under a valid formula.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7694')
	We have also to decide whether, given the Attorney General’s judgment that some 30 pending prosecutions will have to be abandoned, the persons concerned should be re-arrested under the Special Powers Act (paragraph 4). Several of those whose arrests on 9th August, 1971, were judged invalid on purely technical grounds were immediately re-arrested under a valid formula.

Phasing out of Special Powers Act and replacement by less objectionable legislation, making use of internment dependent on declaration of emergency.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7218')
	Joint control by British and Northern Ireland Governments of internment policies and individual decisions, with veto tc each side. 
Periodical referenda on Border. 
Phasing out of Special Powers Act and replacement by less objectionable legislation, making use of internment dependent on declaration of emergency.

period of three days would be no longer than the period for which men have been held in the past under a combination of Regulation 10 and Regulation 11. 
It is suggested therefore that you should 
agree that suspects arrested under Regulation 11 may now be held for questioning for up to 72 hours before being charged, released or made the subject of a detention order.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1864')
	It is suggested therefore that you should 
agree that suspects arrested under Regulation 11 may now be held for questioning for up to 72 hours before being charged, released or made the subject of a detention order.

2. 
Neither will be possible in a climate of terrorism and 
violence.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_50')
	Neither will be possible in a climate of terrorism and 
violence. The outrages to which we have been subjected now threaten our economic life and create every day deeper divisions and antagonism within our community. These, indeed, are the clear objects of those who carry then out.

On reflection, however, he did not think that 
either the accused or his legal representative was necessarily entitled to know the identity of the witness or be in a position to recognise him.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4975')
	He 
still thought that it was essential to a fair trial that there should be a confrontation between the witness and the accused. 
On reflection, however, he did not think that 
either the accused or his legal representative was necessarily entitled to know the identity of the witness or be in a position to recognise him

11. Meanwhile, however, arrests continues and as at 21 January, those in custody - whether under Regulation 10, under a detention order or 
in internment - numbered 758 (of whom 543 were interned). Do the Army 
see any and to this process?	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6672')
	Meanwhile, however, arrests continues and as at 21 January, those in custody - whether under Regulation 10, under a detention order or 
in internment - numbered 758 (of whom 543 were interned).

by a ban of the Apprentice Boys’ march on 12th August.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_223')
	by a ban of the Apprentice Boys’ march on 12th August.

The Advisory Committee on Internment have been reviewing internment cases and recommending release where, because of a change in attitude, there is considered to be no appreciable degree of risk.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7246')
	The Advisory Committee on Internment have been reviewing internment cases and recommending release where, because of a change in attitude, there is considered to be no appreciable degree of risk.

But the terrorist campaign continues at an unacceptable level, and I have had to conclude that the ordinary law cannot deal comprehensively or quickly enough with such ruthless viciousness.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2162')
	Every means has been tried to make terrorists amenable to 
the law. Nor have such methods been without success, because a substantial number of the most prominent leaders of the IRA are now serving ordinary prison sentences. But the terrorist campaign continues at an unacceptable level, and I have had to conclude that the ordinary law cannot deal comprehensively or quickly enough with such ruthless viciousness.

He was considering the difficult problem of the "hard core" of internees and would welcome advice on how these people, some of whom had been involved in considerable violence, might best be treated.	('PREM_15_1007', 'IMG_7407')
	He was considering the difficult problem of the "hard core" of internees and would welcome advice on how these people, some of whom had been involved in considerable violence, might best be treated.

We are, quite simply, at war with the terrorist, and in a state of war many sacrifices have to be made, and made in a co-operative and understanding spirit.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2165')
	e are, quite simply, at war with the terrorist, and in a state of war many sacrifices have to be made, and made in a co-operative and understanding spirit.

lolood of preferring char-e (: - wamW for zzg, r 
ax3sple). 
;-rrv.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1868')
	List C, ith about W naneu, is of graminnt terrarista aga!nt whOM there ia 11’. tleak.; lolood of preferring char-e (: - wamW for zzg, r 
ax3sple).

THE INTERROGATION OF PECPLE RECENTLY TAKEN INTO DETENTION SHOWS VERY CLEARLY THAT IT WAS THE PERIOD IMMEDIATELY BEFORE INTERNMENT 
JUNE, JULY AND EARLY AUGUST - WHICH BROUGHT THE GREAT UPSURGE IN IRA STRENGTH.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6926')
	- IT’S A GOOD ROUND PHRASE, 
BUT IT HAS LITTLE FOUNDATION IN FACT. THE INTERROGATION OF PECPLE RECENTLY TAKEN INTO DETENTION SHOWS VERY CLEARLY THAT IT WAS THE PERIOD IMMEDIATELY BEFORE INTERNMENT 
JUNE, JULY AND EARLY AUGUST - WHICH BROUGHT THE GREAT UPSURGE IN IRA STRENGTH.

2. THIS DECISION HAS BEEN MADE IN THE LIGHT OF IRA ACTIVITY WHICH HAS INCREASED BOTH IN VOLUME AND IN THE VICIOUSNESS OF THE ATTACKS ON THE SECURITY FORCES AND SOCIETY IN NORTHERN IRELAND.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_165')
	THIS DECISION HAS BEEN MADE IN THE LIGHT OF IRA ACTIVITY WHICH HAS INCREASED BOTH IN VOLUME AND IN THE VICIOUSNESS OF THE ATTACKS ON THE SECURITY FORCES AND SOCIETY IN NORTHERN IRELAND. IN ADDITION TO THOSE KILLED BY GUNMEN, EXPLOSIVES HAVE BEEN USED AGAINST POLICE STATIONS, AND ALSO BARS, AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES WHERE CASUALTIES AMONGST ORDINARY CITIZENS WERE INEVITABLE.

IN THIS SITUATION IT IS NOTEWORTHY THAT IN PUBLIC HE HAS NOT EXCLUDED THE POSSIBILITY OF INTERNMENT BECOMING NECESSARY IN THE SOUTH.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_168')
	IT IS NOTEWORTHY THAT IN PUBLIC HE HAS NOT EXCLUDED THE POSSIBILITY OF INTERNMENT BECOMING NECESSARY IN THE SOUTH.

These interim provisions will be employed only where the ordinary processes of the criminal law are inadequate and will be enforced with complete impartiality against whatever persons or organisations are found to be engaged in terrorism and violence. 
Northern Ireland Office 21 September 1972	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8053')
	These interim provisions will be employed only where the ordinary processes of the criminal law are inadequate and will be enforced with complete impartiality against whatever persons or organisations are found to be engaged in terrorism and violence.

21 It is also not without significance that the rate at which arms, 
ammunition and explosives discovered in Northern Ireland by the Security Forces increased markedly after 9 August, and much the greater part of the haul has resulted either directly or indirectly from information obtained by interrogation in depth.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5003')
	Details of morale, operational directives, propaganda techniques, relations with other organisations and future plans. 
(5) 
The discovery of individual responsibility for about 85 incidents recorded on police files which had previously remained unexplained. 
21 It is also not without significance that the rate at which arms, 
ammunition and explosives discovered in Northern Ireland by the Security Forces increased markedly after 9 August, and much the greater part of the haul has resulted either directly or indirectly from information obtained by interrogation in depth.

The degree of planning 
can vary between may days and a few minutes but it is most important that the formula on the Blue Card is used in every case; and it is as well to nominate the soldier who is to carry out the actual arrest and if possible to practise what he is to say beforehand.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1807')
	Planned Arrests 4. 
These are normally made under the SPA powers. The degree of planning 
can vary between may days and a few minutes but it is most important that the formula on the Blue Card is used in every case

8. 
taken We have however that the measures not discriminate as between the different 
sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_201')
	We have however that the measures not discriminate as between the different 
sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable.

The Committee say that the main limitation on their speed of working is the time taken by solicitors to prepare cases for submission to them. 
28 October 1971	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_6045')
	You asked why Judge Brown’s Advisory Committee on 
Internment Appeals seemed to have come to a standstill. In fact, their work is continuing and the figures in the note which you saw (implying no increase in the number of cases considered over the past week) were incorrect. 64 cases have now been considered. 7 have been released (including 2 released today). They have decided not to release 48 and 9 cases are still pending. But the number of cases considered will continue to grow. The Committee say that the main limitation on their speed of working is the time taken by solicitors to prepare cases for submission to them.

It might therefore be advisable to say that the Northern IrelandGovernment had reached their decision after weighing all the relevant considerations, including the views of the security forces, and after consulting the British Government.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_213')
	It might therefore be advisable to say that the Northern IrelandGovernment had reached their decision after weighing all the relevant considerations, including the views of the security forces, and after consulting the British Government.

LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY FOR ACTION TAKEN BY ARMED FORCES DURING EMERGENCY PERIOD 
1. A number of legal powers, in addition to the existing powers under 
the Northern Ireland special powers legislation, would be required to be conferred to enable the Armed Forces to carry out efficiently the role allotted to them in the new emergency situation.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_40')
	A number of legal powers, in addition to the existing powers under 
the Northern Ireland special powers legislation, would be required to be conferred to enable the Armed Forces to carry out efficiently the role allotted to them in the new emergency situation.

At the first signs of a real improvement the word could be allowed to get around that, while internment as such was certainly not being dispensed with immediately, the way in which it was applied was under reconsideration, 
7. As regards those already in internment, the obvious way to 
indicate a fresh approach would be to step up, the release of those who, in the improved situation, were regarded as only marginally a threat to security.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6574')
	At the first signs of a real improvement the word could be allowed to get around that, while internment as such was certainly not being dispensed with immediately, the way in which it was applied was under reconsideration, 
7. As regards those already in internment, the obvious way to 
indicate a fresh approach would be to step up, the release of those who, in the improved situation, were regarded as only marginally a threat to security.

Emphasise that its findings wilalmost always be accepted by the Government.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6185')
	The nternenjsittion 
Is there something to be said for a stadingcmmdission (Par ienthe implementation of the refor 
C. 
(1) Speed upte appeals procedure. (2) Make clear, in a single, comprehensive, public statement how the 
appeals procedure wor.ks and what has been done to ensure that it approximates as closely as possible to a court (access to documents. legal representation etc.). Emphasise that its findings wilalmost always be accepted by the Government.

By July and early August the deterioration in the situation in Northern Ireland had reached the point where they felt it necessary, with the agreement of Her Majesty’s Government, to resort to their powers of internment.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5161')
	By July and early August the deterioration in the situation in Northern Ireland had reached the point where they felt it necessary, with the agreement of Her Majesty’s Government, to resort to their powers of internment.

There is little evidence that internment has led to a substantial increase On the contrary, recent arrests indicate that most of 
those taking part in terrorist attacks were recruited in the period leading up to August of last year. 
So far as those already interned are concerned, the	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6957')
	in IRA recruitment. 
There is little evidence that internment has led to a substantial increase On the contrary, recent arrests indicate that most of 
those taking part in terrorist attacks were recruited in the period leading up to August of last year. 
So far as those already interned are concerned, the

not later than 48 hours after his arrest". When taken in isolation this section could apply to a person arrested without warrant under Section 11 but I don t think it does because when one reads it in conjunection with Section 131 of the same Act and,	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2176')
	It could be argued In fact that this section applies to a person arrested without warrant under Regulation 11 of the Special Powers Act for the section says: "Where a person arrested without warrant is not within 24 hours of his arrest released from custody the member of the R.U.C. in charge of the constabulary station where such person is in custody shall bring him or have him brought before a Magistrates’ Court as soon as practicable thereafter but, in any event, not later than 48 hours after his arrest".

and because’there is no security of ’tenure (le troops would have to vaoato it if i -ere required for its primary role),	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2265')
	because it is temporary accommodation, and not deigned to troop requirements’or standard, and because’there is no security of ’tenure (le troops would have to vaoato it if i -ere required for its primary role),

QUOTE 4. AS TO THE SUBSTANCE OF THE POINTS WHICH HAVE BEEN RAISED, THE SECRETARY OF STATE WOULD FIND NO DIFFICULTY IN SAYING THAT IF THERE WERE A CEASEFIRE, THERE WILL NOT BE A MAJOR LIFT,NOR, INDEED, IS ANYBODY LIKELY TO BE ARRESTED UNLESS THEY CONTINUE 
(HIS WORD) TO APPROACH ANY MEMBER OF THE GOVERNMENT.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7675')
	AS TO THE SUBSTANCE OF THE POINTS WHICH HAVE BEEN RAISED, THE SECRETARY OF STATE WOULD FIND NO DIFFICULTY IN SAYING THAT IF THERE WERE A CEASEFIRE, THERE WILL NOT BE A MAJOR LIFT,NOR, INDEED, IS ANYBODY LIKELY TO BE ARRESTED UNLESS THEY CONTINUE 
(HIS WORD) TO APPROACH ANY MEMBER OF THE GOVERNMENT. 
TO COMMIT CRIMINAL OFFENCES.

(UNATTRIBUTABLE) 
E. MR LYNCH, THE PRIME MINISTER OF THE IRISH REPUBLIC, HAS ALSO BEEN FORTHRIGHT IN HIS CONDEMNATION OF VIOLENCE, MOST RECENTLY IN A.SPEECH OF 8 AUGUST.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_166')
	MR LYNCH, THE PRIME MINISTER OF THE IRISH REPUBLIC, HAS ALSO BEEN FORTHRIGHT IN HIS CONDEMNATION OF VIOLENCE, MOST RECENTLY IN A.SPEECH OF 8 AUGUST.

As the International Red Cross have already commented adversely on the psychological effects of boredom, etc, on internees, it is proposed to permit the use of a limited range of hand tools for hobbies but to do so on the basis of a daily issue which must be handed back each evening.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7858')
	As the International Red Cross have already commented adversely on the psychological effects of boredom, etc, on internees, it is proposed to permit the use of a limited range of hand tools for hobbies but to do so on the basis of a daily issue which must be handed back each evening.

12. I AM MUCH LOOKING FORWARD TO YOUR VISIT IN OCTOBER, WHICH WILL GIVE US AN OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS THE WHOLE RANE OF MATTERS OF INTEREST TO US BOTH. 
WHEN FAULKNER CAME TO LONDON LAST WEEK, HE TOLD US THAT HE HAD THE LATEST SERIES OF ACTS OF TERRORISM BY	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	THE LATEST SERIES OF ACTS OF TERRORISM BY

In the exceptional circumstance in which he did not feel able to do so he would return the case to the Committee for its further consideration giving his reasons for doing so.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6188')
	The British Government have noted that the Advisory Committee on 
Internees has started its work and this committee will examine each case, and the cases of those who remain interned will be kept under continuous review. The Committee will have full access to the documentary material relevant to their work and the right to interview officials. In presenting himself to the Committee an internee will be entitled to legal aid and the presence of his legal adviser. The Prime Minister and Minister for Home Affairs of Northern Ireland has already stated that although the role of the Committee is an advisory one he would expect to accept its advice. In the exceptional circumstance in which he did not feel able to do so he would return the case to the Committee for its further consideration giving his reasons for doing so.

And 
can we be confident that the Official wing would maintain its "cease fire" if (as we surely must) we stood firm against IRA participation and any "amnesty" or termination of internment that was not warranted by the security situation?	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7727')
	And 
can we be confident that the Official wing would maintain its "cease fire" if (as we surely must) we stood firm against IRA participation and any "amnesty" or termination of internment that was not warranted by the security situation?

A committee should be set up by the Lord Chancellors Office in London for urgent consideration of the rules of evidence relating to the procedure to be adopted in the Court.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6755')
	A committee should be set up by the Lord Chancellors Office in London for urgent consideration of the rules of evidence relating to the procedure to be adopted in the Court.

The people who are behind the wire were put there because of the dangerous situation confronting this community in the recent past.	('PREM_15_1006', 'IMG_7290')
	Without doubt a key issue is internment. Let no-one be under any illusion. The people who are behind the wire were put there because of the dangerous situation confronting this community in the recent past.

The more quickly terrorist activity by the IRA subsides, the more rapid will be the pace of release; but any increase in IRA activity will delay the process.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7239')
	The more quickly terrorist activity by the IRA subsides, the more rapid will be the pace of release; but any increase in IRA activity will delay the process.

We have discovered a little detail about the three internees ment- 
ioned in the "Sunday Times" article quoted by the Leader of the Opposition in yesterday’s debate.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5721')
	We have discovered a little detail about the three internees ment- 
ioned in the "Sunday Times" article quoted by the Leader of the Opposition in yesterday’s debate. 
I attach a note which reveals very little about 
the reasons for the three men being interned but does set at rest any anxiety about their physical condition.

They may be the only sources of intelligence at a time when it is urgently required.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5176')
	Persons arrested or detained during Internal Security 
operations or in near emergency situations are likely to be valuable sources of intelligence. They may be the only sources of intelligence at a time when it is urgently required.

8. 
The effectiveness of internment north of the border 
would be greater if the Irish Government were prepared to introduce internment south of the border at the same time; but all that we know of the Irish Government’s policies suggeststhat there is no possibility of parallel action south of the border. I have however sent a message to Lynch, asking him to react with understanding, even if with regret, 
emphasising that we hope that these measures can be strictly temporary,	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_206')
	The effectiveness of internment north of the border 
would be greater if the Irish Government were prepared to introduce internment south of the border at the same time; but all that we know of the Irish Government’s policies suggeststhat there is no possibility of parallel action south of the border.

The aim should be to try to arrest those extremists whom moderate opinion would like to see removed because they stood in the way of conciliation.	('PREM_15_1007', 'IMG_7485')
	The aim should be to try to arrest those extremists whom moderate opinion would like to see removed because they stood in the way of conciliation.

HOURS BEFORE MR FAULKfEV1S STATESLENTF HE SAID HE HAD TAI:N THIS SERIOUS STEP SOLELY FOR 
PROT CI10N OF LIFE AND SECURfTY OF PROPERTY.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2168')
	HE SAID HE HAD TAI:N THIS SERIOUS STEP SOLELY FOR 
PROT CI10N OF LIFE AND SECURfTY OF PROPERTY.

He must then be released unless a detention order as been made against him. If a detention order is made	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_2004')
	A person arrested under Regulation 10 may be questioned for 48 hours. If he is not released by being rearrested under Regulation 11 he may be questioned for a further 24 hours. He must then be released unless a detention order as been made against him.

units are to arrange that the 
soldier making the arrest brings him to the appropriate Police Office and hands him over to a police officer or police constable notifying him of the full circumstances of the arrest in accordance with the procedure laid down in Annex B to Part 3 Section 3 of Northern Ireland Standing Security Instruction 1971. 
If it is operationally impracticable in any 
case for the soldier making the arrest to go with the person arrested to hand him over to the RUC the dispensation given in paragraph 4c of the Instruction referred to may be exercised but the greatest care is to be taken in complying with that instruction particularly as regards continuity of evidence.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2183')
	units are to arrange that the 
soldier making the arrest brings him to the appropriate Police Office and hands him over to a police officer or police constable notifying him of the full circumstances of the arrest in accordance with the procedure laid down in Annex B to Part 3 Section 3 of Northern Ireland Standing Security Instruction 1971

16. It should be added that: a. 
to authenticate the cover story,	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2265')
	to authenticate the cover story, it i essential that 
the camp should be soen to be performing its secondary role; it will, thereforoQ need to be ocupid, as much as possible, by British troops=

The 
Prime Minister reminded Dr.	('PREM_15_1691', 'IMG_8880')
	The 
Prime Minister reminded Dr. Fitzgerald that the number of people being charged for security offences and brought before the courts was now very considerable

* ft 5. . The possible Grounds are two-fold: the need for an nternont’ < 
camp as an instrument of the fight against terrorism .	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2263')
	he need for an nternont’ < 
camp as an instrument of the fight against terrorism .to which: both H.I.G. and thoStormont Govornmont are committed

DRAFT MESSAGE TO THE TAOISEACH I am sending you this message to let you know 
that the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland will very shortly be announcing that, in the light of the latest assessment of the security situation in Northern Ireland and all.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2192')
	in the light of the latest assessment of the security situation in Northern Ireland and all. other relevant factors, and after consultation with the British Government, the Northern Ireland Govern ment has decided to activate its powers of internment so as to enable the security forces to arrest and detain people suspected of responsibility for committing or abetting acts of terrorism and other breaches of the peace designed to lead to a breakdown of law and order in Northern Ireland.

If the problem were simply that juries perversely 
refused to convict, it would be possible by legislation to dispense with the jury system in such cases and to substitute appointed judges, magistrates or assessors.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4921')
	If the problem were simply that juries perversely 
refused to convict, it would be possible by legislation to dispense with the jury system in such cases and to substitute appointed judges, magistrates or assessors. This is broadly the procedure which has been adopted in the past in the Republic of Ireland. But the special courts there are

(UNATTRIBUTABLE) 
H. THOSE HELD WILL, WITHIN A REASONABLE PERIOD, EITHER BE CHARGED BEFORE A COURT, RELEASED, OR MADE THE SUBJECT OF AN INTERNMENT ORDER.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_166')
	THOSE HELD WILL, WITHIN A REASONABLE PERIOD, EITHER BE CHARGED BEFORE A COURT, RELEASED, OR MADE THE SUBJECT OF AN INTERNMENT ORDER.

2. 
It might be best to confine discussion to the purely military aspects 
and to discuss such matters as legal problems (Items 3 and 4 of the Annex) under the Civil Contingency Planning item on the agenda.	('PREM_15_476', 'IMG_5460')
	It might be best to confine discussion to the purely military aspects 
and to discuss such matters as legal problems (Items 3 and 4 of the Annex) under the Civil Contingency Planning item on the agenda.

This would be bound to attract public comment and it would be impossible to keep the true reason for the work from becoming known.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2295')
	This would be bound to attract public comment and it would be impossible to keep the true reason for the work from becoming known. (Note: recent military visits to Rathlin Island have already led to public speculation whether an internment camp was being contemplated there).

IT WOULD NOT HELP THE CAUSE OF PEACE, IF A LARGE NUMBER OF GUNMEN WERE RELEASED.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_7004')
	OUR THOUGHTFUL LETTER SHOWED THAT YOU UNDERSTAND WHY IT IS NOT POSSIBLE FOR US, IN PRESENT CIRCUMSTANCES, TO ACCEDE TO THEIR DEMAND THAT INTERNMENT SHOULD FIRST BE COMPLETELY ENDED. IT WOULD NOT HELP THE CAUSE OF PEACE, IF A LARGE NUMBER OF GUNMEN WERE RELEASED.

As an earnest of his good intentions, the Secretary of State said that he had that day signed orders releasing 18 more internees including the last of the official IRA.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7899')
	As an earnest of his good intentions, the Secretary of State said that he had that day signed orders releasing 18 more internees including the last of the official IRA. This, with his previous releases, made a total of 65 persons released in a week. The Secretary of State explained the position regarding detainees and pointed out that it was only the Attorney-General who could order their release.

Should at any stage there be overcrowding in the camp, as Chambers has pointed out, there is space for an extra hut in the camp layout.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2245')
	Should at any stage there be overcrowding in the camp, as Chambers has pointed out, there is space for an extra hut in the camp layout.

Legislation will vary from country to country and Military personnel are to acquaint themselves 
with the laws of the country concerned, and will not act unlawfully under any circumstances whatever.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_2141')
	Military personnel are to acquaint themselves 
with the laws of the country concerned, and will not act unlawfully under any circumstances whatever.

THE SECURITY FORCES ARE ACCORDINGLY ARRESTING AND DETAINING PEOPLE SUSPECTED OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMMITTING OR ABETTING ACTS OF TERRORISM AND OTHER BREACHES OF THE PEACE DESIGNED TO LEAD TO A BREAKDOWN OF LAW AND ORDER IN NORTHERN IRELAND.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_179')
	THE SECURITY FORCES ARE ACCORDINGLY ARRESTING AND DETAINING PEOPLE SUSPECTED OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMMITTING OR ABETTING ACTS OF TERRORISM AND OTHER BREACHES OF THE PEACE DESIGNED TO LEAD TO A BREAKDOWN OF LAW AND ORDER IN NORTHERN IRELAND.

Dr Newe, whose opinions I respect - of some degree of softening at this time, to 
which the flow of information would lend further weight.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6956')
	Dr Newe, whose opinions I respect - of some degree of softening at this time, to 
which the flow of information would lend further weight.

15. We conclude that an operation on the lines discussed is militarily feasible provided that Ministers accept the implications described below; and that it could be mounted within ten days of a Ministerial decision to launch it, provided that the necessary legislative measures could be introduced in advance of the completion of the build-up and passed through Parliament without delay. 
Implications 
16. We believe that, before adopting this completely new approach, Ministers should be aware of the following implications, all of which are likely to arise to a greater or lesser extent as indicated in the following paragraphs or in the Annexes:(a) the disruption of the life of Northern Ireland for which the security forces will be held responsible; 
(b) the loss of life and damage to property virtually certain to be inflicted by the security forces upon persons not themselves guilty of violence or terrorism; 
(c) the operation will in our opinion harden the polarisation of the two main factions and the alienation, certainly of the Roman Catholic community and probably of the Protestants as well, from the British connexion; 
(d) a need to resort again to internment, possibly on a large scale and certainly with a sectarian imbalance that would be represented as evidence of anti-Catholic bias; 
(e) 
a substantial requirement for legislation, which would need to be passed rapidly but which would contain elements unlikely to command bi-partisan support or to be accepted by Parliament without extensive discussion; 
(f) a need to seek legislation to indemnify Crown servants in respect of actions whose scope it will be impossible to define;	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_17')
	a need to resort again to internment, possibly on a large scale and certainly with a sectarian imbalance that would be represented as evidence of anti-Catholic bias;

In December 1972 they reported that, because witnesses were intimidated or afraid to give evidence, no criminal procedure which satisfied the requirements of Article 6 of the European Convention of Human Rights could effectively bring terrorists to justice.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9320')
	The Commission was asked to find out whether terrorist activity could be dealt with by the criminal courts. In December 1972 they reported that, because witnesses were intimidated or afraid to give evidence, no criminal procedure which satisfied the requirements of Article 6 of the European Convention of Human Rights could effectively bring terrorists to justice.

PRIME MINISTER 
The other/complication for us is that we do not allow political 
him in as an immigrant on the grounds that he is a danger to national security to which they will say if he is a danger to national security why on earth can’t you deal with him.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5828')
	The other/complication for us is that we do not allow political 
him in as an immigrant on the grounds that he is a danger to national security to which they will say if he is a danger to national security why on earth can’t you deal with him.

2nd August, 1972 18/2/28 The Attorney General has now considered Sir William 
Nield’s paper on preventive detention for terrorist conduct, to which you referred in your Minute of the 31st July.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_8005')
	The Attorney General has now considered Sir William 
Nield’s paper on preventive detention for terrorist conduct, to which you referred in your Minute of the 31st July.

They will at the same time announce that all marche 
and parades.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2192')
	They will at the same time announce that all marche 
and parades. are banned until further notice.

3. 4. / HE WILL ALSO ANNOUNCE THAT ALL OUTSTANDING APPLICATONS TO 
START RIFLE CLUBS ARE BEING REFUSED, AND THA NO NEW APLICATIONS WILL BE CONSIDERED.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	3. 4. / HE WILL ALSO ANNOUNCE THAT ALL OUTSTANDING APPLICATONS TO 
START RIFLE CLUBS ARE BEING REFUSED, AND THA NO NEW APLICATIONS WILL BE CONSIDERED.

NONE ARE INTERNEES.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4967')
	(E) ALL THE PRESENT CROP OF ALLEGATIONS CAME FROM MEN CHARGED WITH CRIMINAL OFFENCES, TWO HAVE ALREADY BEEN SENTENCED TO 10 YEARS. NONE ARE INTERNEES.

7. 
As soon as responsibility has been trans- 
ferred an immediate review will be put in hand by this Government of all internment orders with a view to revoking as many of them as possible consistent with public safety.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7231')
	As soon as responsibility has been trans- 
ferred an immediate review will be put in hand by this Government of all internment orders with a view to revoking as many of them as possible consistent with public safety. 
The Government have taken 
this decision after consultation with their military advisors. 
Some .... are to be immediately, 
released and in the category of those who should in the near future be released there are some more names. 
The pace of releases will depend on 
the state of public security and the effect upon it e: of the release of particular internees whose cases are under review.

You asked me :- 
(i) whether the Home Office regularly see the statement setting out the grounds on which an internment order is signed in respect of any individual; 
see this.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6842')
	You asked me :- 
(i) whether the Home Office regularly see the statement setting out the grounds on which an internment order is signed in respect of any individual; 
see this. 
(ii) what are the criteria for interment ? The answer to (i) is that the Home Office do not 
Ireland Minister of Home Affairs. But 
Statutorily it is a matter for the Northern In practice 
Philip Woodfield did see some of the statements which were prepared in the early stages in early September when he want to Northern Ireland on a visit. 
there is no regular arrangement whereby the UK Goverment is given this information.

6. 
I have taken this serious step solely for the protection 
of life and security of property in Northern Ireland.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2163')
	I have taken this serious step solely for the protection 
of life and security of property in Northern Ireland.

which would be thought to be directed against one faction and must accordingly be matched by some political action, in the form of a ban on marches, which would represent its counterpart in relation to the other faction.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_212')
	It must therefore be regarded as a political act, 
military necessity. 
which would be thought to be directed against one faction and must accordingly be matched by some political action, in the form of a ban on marches, which would represent its counterpart in relation to the other faction.

Mr Cairncross of use in your discussions tomorrow.	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1757')
	e in your discussions tomorrow. 
I attach a draft of a possible statement on arrest policy which may be I have no doubt that we can Justify 
(a) to (e); but this will not give the army anything like what they want. have therefore added (f) which might be a possible fall-back position. 
I If 
this provision were to be added, we should have to make sure that the army do not add a large number of names to the list on the assumption that everybody knows everything in Northern Ireland. 
the names on the list. This really means vetting

The United Kingdom Government 
would prefer to use the normal processes of law for this purpose, but the situation in Northern Ireland made this impracticable.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5604')
	The United Kingdom Government 
would prefer to use the normal processes of law for this purpose, but the situation in Northern Ireland made this impracticable.

- IT’S A GOOD ROUND PHRASE, 
BUT IT HAS LITTLE FOUNDATION IN FACT.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6926')
	- IT’S A GOOD ROUND PHRASE, 
BUT IT HAS LITTLE FOUNDATION IN FACT. THE INTERROGATION OF PECPLE RECENTLY TAKEN INTO DETENTION SHOWS VERY CLEARLY THAT IT WAS THE PERIOD IMMEDIATELY BEFORE INTERNMENT 
JUNE, JULY AND EARLY AUGUST - WHICH BROUGHT THE GREAT UPSURGE IN IRA STRENGTH.

Provisional officers and certain 
volunteers.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1814')
	From this it will be seen that arrests are linked to the prospect of bringing criminal charges, except in the case of categories c. and d. - 
ie. Provisional officers and certain 
volunteers.

The men concerned were likely to resist arrest and many of them were likely to be armed; in these circumstances the army’s performance was highly creditable.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5083')
	Arrests 
- 342 men were arrested on August 9 in a highly successful 
operation in very difficult circumstances. No force but the minimum necessary was used to achieve arrest. The men concerned were likely to resist arrest and many of them were likely to be armed; in these circumstances the army’s performance was highly creditable.

James ’Doc’ Docherty was arrested under SPA 11. 
BORDER AND RURAL AREAS 4. 
There were 3 shooting incidents, two involving SF.	('DEFE_13_1358', 'IMG_9579')
	James ’Doc’ Docherty was arrested under SPA 11.

20. The first advantage above is probably over riding, but the disadvantages of MAIDSTONE are: a. 
it can only take 150 internees immediately.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2279')
	the disadvantages of MAIDSTONE are: a. 
it can only take 150 internees immediately. b. it would be unsatisfactory for internees for more than 
about one month. c. 
it would provide internees accommodation at the expense of Army requirements.

PERIMETER 
procedures for internment, it is better that these should be let out, possibly in batches.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4925')
	procedures for internment, it is better that these should be let out, possibly in batches.

It is alleged that internment is being directed against the Catholic 
section of the population.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5590')
	It is alleged that internment is being directed against the Catholic 
section of the population. This is simply untrue.

Secondly, even if the evidence did stand up, there are obvious and overriding objections to disclosing its nature to the defence or arranging for a confrontation between the security services and the person involved 
- which is the minimum of that is required for the hearing 
to be described as being in any way before a court.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6305')
	Secondly, even if the evidence did stand up, there are obvious and overriding objections to disclosing its nature to the defence or arranging for a confrontation between the security services and the person involved 
- which is the minimum of that is required for the hearing 
to be described as being in any way before a court.

In addition the Civil 
Authorities S ooia jPowers Act (Northern Ireland) 1922 (referred to as the Spoo l Powers Act or SPA) oonfers further power of arreSt 011 soldlor when on duty.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1828')
	In addition the Civil 
Authorities S ooia jPowers Act (Northern Ireland) 1922 (referred to as the Spoo l Powers Act or SPA) oonfers further power of arreSt 011 soldlor when on duty.

JOINT DIRECTIVE ON INTERROGATION IN OPERATIONS BY THE ARMED FORCES 
INTRODUCTION 1. Persons arrested or detained during military operations, but particularly 
during Internal Security operations or in near emergency situations are likely to be valuable sources of intelligence.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_2065')
	Persons arrested or detained during military operations, but particularly 
during Internal Security operations or in near emergency situations are likely to be valuable sources of intelligence.

Following the shooting of L/Sgt McKay 6 men were arrested under SPA 11 of whom 2 have been held for questioning.	('DEFE_13_1358', 'IMG_9577')
	Following the shooting of L/Sgt McKay 6 men were arrested under SPA 11 of whom 2 have been held for questioning.

the nrrt e ¶d ieron in to be hnndod over to the nolice as soon as 
posibe va n n nea ina 1 rMl i c:,;` 
6. Refernr:cr 1 i.w 1nl , orceplt tha olonnr1d orrect oprzations a.re to he 
conduted only an specific and local responses in tho event of terrorist outrApee.	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1752')
	Refernr:cr 1 i.w 1nl , orceplt tha olonnr1d orrect oprzations a.re to he 
conduted only an specific and local responses in tho event of terrorist outrApee.

(5) H.M.G.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_153')
	H.M.G. deplores the necessity for powers of internment. You are glad that the responsible public opinion - especially in the press - have accepted this.

I hope the work can begin bythe end of the month. 
Given the need to move forward as quickly as	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2257')
	Given the need to move forward as quickly as

(e) such a person may give evidence and be legally represented.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9321')
	(d) a person appearing before a commissioner is given in advance a statement of the terrorist activities he is alleged to have engaged in; 
(e) such a person may give evidence and be legally represented.

If internment in Northern 
roland could be accompanied by internment in the Republic the political, difficulties would be largely overcome and the effectiveness of the action greatly increased.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2219')
	If internment in Northern 
roland could be accompanied by internment in the Republic the political, difficulties would be largely overcome and the effectiveness of the action greatly increased.

THE PRIME MINISTER, summing up this part of the discussion, said that it was agreed that, at least from the point of view of opinion in Great Britain, the success of all the measures in contemplation depended very largely on its being manifest that the machinery of the Advisory Committee was working speedily and justly.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6176')
	THE PRIME MINISTER, summing up this part of the discussion, said that it was agreed that, at least from the point of view of opinion in Great Britain, the success of all the measures in contemplation depended very largely on its being manifest that the machinery of the Advisory Committee was working speedily and justly.

On the other hand, acceptance of the plan would presumably ensure the end of internment; and, if the law and order function were simultaneously transferred to Westminister, the balance of advantage might - one cannot say more - appear to the Catholics to be worth accepting. As regards the Protestants, there can be no certainty that Mr. Faulkner could stomach the plan or that, if he fell, anybody could	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6701')
	On the other hand, acceptance of the plan would presumably ensure the end of internment; and, if the law and order function were simultaneously transferred to Westminister, the balance of advantage might - one cannot say more - appear to the Catholics to be worth accepting.

4. AFTER THE MEETING I SPOKE TO BLOOMFIELD AND POINTED OUT THAT EVEN THOUGH THE STATEMENT ISSUED FROM THE NORTHERN IRELAND GOVERNMENT THE SUBJECT OF INTERNMENT WAS SO SENSITIVE THAT QUESTIONS MIGHT WELL BE DIRECTED TO HMG IN PARLIAMENT, ESPECIALLY IF THE STATEMENT DEALT WITH MATTERS SUCH AS THE IRA STATUS OF ALL INTERNEES AND THE OPERATION OF JUDGE BROWN’S COMMITTEE.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6773')
	AFTER THE MEETING I SPOKE TO BLOOMFIELD AND POINTED OUT THAT EVEN THOUGH THE STATEMENT ISSUED FROM THE NORTHERN IRELAND GOVERNMENT THE SUBJECT OF INTERNMENT WAS SO SENSITIVE THAT QUESTIONS MIGHT WELL BE DIRECTED TO HMG IN PARLIAMENT, ESPECIALLY IF THE STATEMENT DEALT WITH MATTERS SUCH AS THE IRA STATUS OF ALL INTERNEES AND THE OPERATION OF JUDGE BROWN’S COMMITTEE.

THEY DEL IBERATELY CREATEC A VACUUM, AND DID iCT CARE THAT IT WAS THE MEN VITH THE ELACF PEFETE AND THE SECRET PCMB IN THE NIGHT AHC WCUL FILL THAT VCIC.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6925')
	’’VEFE TE FERCFIPLE, ELEClEC LEADERS OF MINCRITY CPINIONI’ TFEE CRITICPl ’EL 
A"’ C "CNTHS EEFCFE INTERNMENT 
EYEFCIED’C CF SEEI1"C TC EXERCISE IN THE COMMUNITY AN INFLUENCE FCF FESTFAINT? VERE -TFY AmilSING THEIR SUPPCTERS TC FCA VITH CTHEF A GF:pO’C CAL ITICN AGAINST VICLENCE AND TERRCRISM? 
C" THE CCN!TFAFY: VHEf CFrEREC A MAJCF STEP IN THE CIRECTION OF PAR:TICIPATIC" A"C I "’\CLVEMENT, THEY SHIED AVAY LIKE A FR ICHTE"EC FCREE. THEY PCSITIVELY FELL CVER THEMSELVES TC CISEPGAGE FRCM THE DEMCCFATIC PROCESE. THEY DEL IBERATELY CREATEC A VACUUM, AND DID iCT CARE THAT IT WAS THE MEN VITH THE ELACF PEFETE AND THE SECRET PCMB IN THE NIGHT AHC WCUL FILL THAT VCIC.

There would appear to be some feeling in Britain that it might have been possible for him to introduce internment in the South.	('PREM_15_486', 'IMG_6417')
	There would appear to be some feeling in Britain that it might have been possible for him to introduce internment in the South.

c. 
Anyone known to be holding officer rank in the Provisional IRA even 
though there is no evidence to justify criminal charges.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1802')
	Anyone known to be holding officer rank in the Provisional IRA even 
though there is no evidence to justify criminal charges.

14. In the present circumstances of Northern 
Treland, as described in paragraphs 3-5 of this note, it is imperative to obtain all available intelligence in order to save the lives of civilians and members of the security forces; and it is therefore essential to interrogate suspects who are believed to have essential information.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5169')
	In the present circumstances of Northern 
Treland, as described in paragraphs 3-5 of this note, it is imperative to obtain all available intelligence in order to save the lives of civilians and members of the security forces; and it is therefore essential to interrogate suspects who are believed to have essential information.

4. WE BELIEVE THAT MR FITT’S SPEECH ABOUT THE IRA (YOUR PARAGRAPH 4 (E)) WAS NOT INTENDED AS A JUSTIFICATION FOR INTERNMENT BUT TO REMIND THE PROTESTANTS IN THE NORTH THAT THE SDLP - 
OR AT LEAST MR FITT - UTTERLY REJECTED IRA VIOLENCE AND WAS THUS A VIABLE 
AND REPECTABLE INTERLOCUTOR VIS-A-VIS THE UNIONIST ADMINISTRATION IN THE SENSE OF MR MAUDLING’S STATEMENT. 
PECK 
DEPARTMENTAL DISTRIBUTION WED 
PUSD NEWS D RESEARCH D (W 
E SECTION) 
ADDITIONAL DISTRIBUTION N IRELAND	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5756')
	WE BELIEVE THAT MR FITT’S SPEECH ABOUT THE IRA (YOUR PARAGRAPH 4 (E)) WAS NOT INTENDED AS A JUSTIFICATION FOR INTERNMENT BUT TO REMIND THE PROTESTANTS IN THE NORTH THAT THE SDLP - 
OR AT LEAST MR FITT - UTTERLY REJECTED IRA VIOLENCE AND WAS THUS A VIABLE 
AND REPECTABLE INTERLOCUTOR VIS-A-VIS THE UNIONIST ADMINISTRATION IN THE SENSE OF MR MAUDLING’S STATEMENT.

IRELAND GOVERNMENT INTRODUCED INTERNMENT DURING THE LAST WAR AND IN 1957-61.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_166')
	IRA VIOLENCE HAS MADE RECOURSE TO INTERNMENT NECESSARY ON EARLIER OCCASIONS. THE NORTHERN. IRELAND GOVERNMENT INTRODUCED INTERNMENT DURING THE LAST WAR AND IN 1957-61.

Any action we take must be such as not to alienate the minority community as a whole: a consideration which must rule out the further use of internment in the arbitrary form which it now takes under the Special Powers Act.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7785')
	Any action we take must be such as not to alienate the minority community as a whole: a consideration which must rule out the further use of internment in the arbitrary form which it now takes under the Special Powers Act.

If this were acceptable in terms 
of security, it would represent a more definite move in the right direction and a more constructive earnest of the Government’s intentions than the essentially negative presentation adopted by the draft statement, particularly in the sentence at the end of the third paragraph.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8063')
	If this were acceptable in terms 
of security, it would represent a more definite move in the right direction and a more constructive earnest of the Government’s intentions than the essentially negative presentation adopted by the draft statement, particularly in the sentence at the end of the third paragraph.

The Government regrets, therefore, that internment here should be described in your message as "sectarian". 
His Excellency’s advisers strenuously contest the claim in your 
message that internment has caused death and destruction.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4972')
	The Government regrets, therefore, that internment here should be described in your message as "sectarian". 
His Excellency’s advisers strenuously contest the claim in your 
message that internment has caused death and destruction.

There is,	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6958')
	There is, therefore, the likelihood that internees 
released as a political gesture would return to their previous activities and so repair the substantial damage which has been inflicted on both factions of the IRA since 9 August 1971.

than by internment by the executive, individuals involved in terrorist activities, particularly’those who plan and direct but do not necessarily take part in terrorist acts..	('PREM_15_1016', 'IMG_8590')
	than by internment by the executive, individuals involved in terrorist activities, particularly’those who plan and direct but do not necessarily take part in terrorist acts..

But in so far as Mr Faulkner took them into his confidence, he must make it wholly clear to them that the British Cabinet would not acquiesce in internment unless marches were banned.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_213')
	But in so far as Mr Faulkner took them into his confidence, he must make it wholly clear to them that the British Cabinet would not acquiesce in internment unless marches were banned.

6. 
The decision is, of course, Faulkners, since the 
powers under which these measures are taken are powers.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2196')
	The decision is, of course, Faulkners, since the 
powers under which these measures are taken are powers. of the Northern Ireland Government.

Internment: Second Alternative 7. 
It is Her Majesty’s Government’s intention to release as soon as 
possible those internees about whom there is a reasonable degree of doubt as to the danger to security that their release would pose.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7214')
	It is Her Majesty’s Government’s intention to release as soon as 
possible those internees about whom there is a reasonable degree of doubt as to the danger to security that their release would pose. Their release will be conditional on an undertaking not to take part in or encourage violence or illegal action.

THE MARCHES DUE IN DERRY ON 12 AUGUST AND IN BELFAST AN ADVISOR 
COMMITTEE WILL BE SET UP, TO WHICH ANYONE WHO IS INTERNED WILL HAVE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNMENT 
NORTH OF THE BORDER WOULD BE GREATER IF THE IRISH GOVERNMENT WERE PREPARED TO INTRODUCE INTERNMENT SOUTH OF THE BORDER AT THE SAME TIME: BUT ALL THAT WE KNOW OF THE IRISH GOVERNMENTS POLICIES SUGGEST THAT THERE IS NO POSSIBILITY OF PARALLEL ACTION SOUTH OF THE BORDER.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_196')
	AN ADVISOR 
COMMITTEE WILL BE SET UP, TO WHICH ANYONE WHO IS INTERNED WILL HAVE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNMENT 
NORTH OF THE BORDER WOULD BE GREATER IF THE IRISH GOVERNMENT WERE PREPARED TO INTRODUCE INTERNMENT SOUTH OF THE BORDER AT THE SAME TIME: BUT ALL THAT WE KNOW OF THE IRISH GOVERNMENTS POLICIES SUGGEST THAT THERE IS NO POSSIBILITY OF PARALLEL ACTION SOUTH OF THE BORDER.

WHILE I NATURALLY WELCOME CONTACTS WITH YOU AS THE HEAD OF A FRIENDLY GOVERNMENT, AND WHILE MR. FAULKNER AND I HAVE OFTEN MADE CLEAR OUR DESIRE TO SEE GREATER CO-OPERATION BETWEEN ALL GOVERNMENTS CONCERNED IN PROMOTING THE MUTUAL PROSPERITY AND WELL-BEING OF THE PEOPLES OF NORTHERN IRELAND AND THE REPUBLIC, I CANNOT ACCEPT THAT ANYONE OUTSIDE THE UNITED KINGDOM CAN PARTICIPATE IN MEETINGS DESIGNED TO PROMOTE THE POLITICAL DEVELOPMENT OF ANY PART OF THE UNITED KINGDOM. I FIND YOUR REFERENCE TO SUPPORTING THE POLICY OF PASSIVE RESISTANCE NOW BEING PURSUED BY CERTAIN ELEMENTS IN NORTHERN IRELAND CALCULATED TO DO MAXIMUM DAMAGE TO THE CO-OPERATION BETWEEN THE COMMUNITIES IN NORTHERN IRELAND WHICH IT IS OUR PURPOSE, AND I WOULD HOPE WOULD BE YOUR PURPOSE, TO ACHIEVE;	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5860')
	WHILE I NATURALLY WELCOME CONTACTS WITH YOU AS THE HEAD OF A FRIENDLY GOVERNMENT, AND WHILE MR. FAULKNER AND I HAVE OFTEN MADE CLEAR OUR DESIRE TO SEE GREATER CO-OPERATION BETWEEN ALL GOVERNMENTS CONCERNED IN PROMOTING THE MUTUAL PROSPERITY AND WELL-BEING OF THE PEOPLES OF NORTHERN IRELAND AND THE REPUBLIC, I CANNOT ACCEPT THAT ANYONE OUTSIDE THE UNITED KINGDOM CAN PARTICIPATE IN MEETINGS DESIGNED TO PROMOTE THE POLITICAL DEVELOPMENT OF ANY PART OF THE UNITED KINGDOM. I FIND YOUR REFERENCE TO SUPPORTING THE POLICY OF PASSIVE RESISTANCE NOW BEING PURSUED BY CERTAIN ELEMENTS IN NORTHERN IRELAND CALCULATED TO DO MAXIMUM DAMAGE TO THE CO-OPERATION BETWEEN THE COMMUNITIES IN NORTHERN IRELAND WHICH IT IS OUR PURPOSE, AND I WOULD HOPE WOULD BE YOUR PURPOSE, TO ACHIEVE;

limit future new internments selectively to ring leaders of whom a number of the most important are still at large, But the Army consider it vital that the option should remain of detaining and interning terrorists who are captured in the rural areas, where the intelligence picture is less complete and the IRA may well build up their activities.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6779')
	But the Army consider it vital that the option should remain of detaining and interning terrorists who are captured in the rural areas, where the intelligence picture is less complete and the IRA may well build up their activities.

7. IT IS IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT, IN SPITE OF CAREFUL EXAMINATION, IT IS NOT POSSIBLE IN PRESENT CONDITIONS (EG INTIMIDATION) TO BRING PRESENT INTERNEES TO TRIAL. CONCLUSIONS 8. ALL INTERNEES ARE MEMBERS OF THE IRA AND THEIR PREMAT	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6772')
	IT IS IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT, IN SPITE OF CAREFUL EXAMINATION, IT IS NOT POSSIBLE IN PRESENT CONDITIONS (EG INTIMIDATION) TO BRING PRESENT INTERNEES TO TRIAL.

Furthermore, the original purpose of the Regulation ws to enable Should it, 
therefore, be ignored and Regulation 11 used instead as authority to make arrests?	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2172')
	suspects to be put temporarily out of the way during a particular :oyal Visit. It was not drafted as part of detention and internment procedure. 
Furthermore, the original purpose of the Regulation ws to enable Should it, 
therefore, be ignored and Regulation 11 used instead as authority to make arrests?

7. 
The Home Office (Prison Department’s) advice is that the accommoda- 
tion would be defensible on humanitarian grounds.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2273')
	The Home Office (Prison Department’s) advice is that the accommoda- 
tion would be defensible on humanitarian grounds. The proposed arrangements will however be examined in greater detail and any necessary changes reflected in the design. (The examination will also cover the associated problem of privileges).

The Attorney General cannot see how any moral accusatorial procedure could work.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6305')
	The Attorney General cannot see how any moral accusatorial procedure could work.

If we want to keep the internees under restraint, and he thought we should, he could see no alternative to the present interment 
The Northern Ireland Labour Party came to see us yesterday, to discuss 
interment.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6305')
	If we want to keep the internees under restraint, and he thought we should, he could see no alternative to the present interment

Nevertheless, certain basic problems of countering terrorism 
by the normal processes of law still present difficulties.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8052')
	Nevertheless, certain basic problems of countering terrorism 
by the normal processes of law still present difficulties. These include the problem of preventing the intimidation of Witnesses who may be in danger of their lives if they give evidence in court; and of bringing to trial many of those who, although responsible for organising and directing terrorism, take care to avoid so far as possible themselves engaging in terrorist operations. The system of internment cannot be ended without putting something in its place.

THREE SERIOUSLY9 MEANWHLE IN LONDONy NOSTHERN tRELA i)LABOUR PARTY LE00ERS 
JERE THIS AFTERNOON SEEING HC!	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5601')
	THE ANNOUNCEMENT CAE SHORTL AFTER ANOTER 24 HOURS 
OF IlrRTAw TERROR IN ULSTER’S TROUBLED CtT’IES WHICH LEFT TWO SOLDIERS AND A CIVILIAN EAD AND FIVE SOLDIERS WOUNDED, THREE SERIOUSLY9

to include proposals for ending internment as soon as the IRA campaign ceases.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6968')
	to include proposals for ending internment as soon as the IRA campaign ceases

They are the present threat: but we will not hesitate to take strong action against any other individuals or organisations who may present such a threat in the future.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_51')
	They are the present threat: but we will not hesitate to take strong action against any other individuals or organisations who may present such a threat in the future.

C.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2174')
	Regulation 10 enables an officer of the Royal Ulster 
Constabulary to authorise the arrest without warrant and detention for a period of not more than 48 hours for the purpose of interrogation. The distinction is made throughout the Regulations between a "police constable" on the one hand and a "police officer" on the other hand and Regulation 10 is therefore wide enough - 
and I think is intended 
to enable a police officer to authorise either a police constable or a member of H.M. Forces to arrest without warrant for this period and for this purpose. It is a valuable regulation and it should not be ignored but it does presuppose a specific authorisation by an officer of the R.U.C.

7. 
In announcing the decision to introduce internment on 9 August 
1971 the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland, Mr Brian Faulkner, said:. "If Northern Ireland is to survive and prosper, two things are essential.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5161')
	"If Northern Ireland is to survive and prosper, two things are essential. We must sustain a continuing programme of economic and social development, and we must find the means to create a more united society here 
- one in which all men of goodwill, 
however divergent their legitimate political views, may participate to the full. 
our policy. These things are, and will continue to be, the aims of

3. THE POLICE AND THE ARMY ARE FIRM IN THE VIEW THAT THE INTELLIGENCE THEY ARE NOW REAPING FROM THE INTERNMENT OPERATION MUST BE EXPLOITED TO THE FULL, AND USED IN A CONTINUING EFFORT TO ROLL UP THE IRA.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6194')
	THE POLICE AND THE ARMY ARE FIRM IN THE VIEW THAT THE INTELLIGENCE THEY ARE NOW REAPING FROM THE INTERNMENT OPERATION MUST BE EXPLOITED TO THE FULL, AND USED IN A CONTINUING EFFORT TO ROLL UP THE IRA. AT THE LAST TWO DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS MEETINGS GREAT STRESS HAS BEEN LAID ON THE FOOLISHNESS OF ALLOWING THE ARREST RATE TO BE DETERMINED BY THE ACCOMMODATION AVAILABLE.

other relevant factors, and after consultation with the British Government, the Northern Ireland Govern ment has decided to activate its powers of internment so as to enable the security forces to arrest and detain people suspected of responsibility for committing or abetting acts of terrorism and other breaches of the peace designed to lead to a breakdown of law and order in Northern Ireland.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2192')
	in the light of the latest assessment of the security situation in Northern Ireland and all. other relevant factors, and after consultation with the British Government, the Northern Ireland Govern ment has decided to activate its powers of internment so as to enable the security forces to arrest and detain people suspected of responsibility for committing or abetting acts of terrorism and other breaches of the peace designed to lead to a breakdown of law and order in Northern Ireland.

TO INTIMIDATlCN A`L CLAT 
CIRCLEF VIICH CL.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6925')
	AT ALL TIMES IT HAS BEEN CUR AIM TC 
ET ALICE ANY CCNEICERASTICNS CF PCLITICS CR PCPULAkITY, AND IT VAE EY THAT SINGLE CFITERION THAT WE CECIDED IN 
. Het’ EyTfACRCI"AFY IT IS TAT, EVEN IN CERTAIN 
TC PUT FIFET THE SAFETY CF THIS CCUNTRY AND ALL VHO LIVE IN IT. 
AUGUET LAST THAT THE TERRCRST CCNSPIRACY MUST BE .ChECKED, A1D TAT 1C: UE FCR THAT PURPCEE THE ORDINARY MACHINERY OF IHE Lh- AVCULD PE TC EYPCE TCC MANY PECPLF. TO INTIMIDATlCN A`L CLAT

I AM SENDING YOU THIS MESSAGE TO LET YOU KNOW THAT THE PRIME 
MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND WILL VERY SHORTLY BE ANNOUNCING THAT, IN THE LIGHT OF THE LATEST ASSESSMENT OF THE SECURITY SITUATION IN NORTHERN IRELAND AND ALL OTHER RELEVANT FACTORS AND AFTER CONSULTATION WITH THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT, THE NORTHERN IRELAND GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED TO ACTIVATE ITS POWERS OF INTERNMENT.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	I AM SENDING YOU THIS MESSAGE TO LET YOU KNOW THAT THE PRIME 
MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND WILL VERY SHORTLY BE ANNOUNCING THAT, IN THE LIGHT OF THE LATEST ASSESSMENT OF THE SECURITY SITUATION IN NORTHERN IRELAND AND ALL OTHER RELEVANT FACTORS AND AFTER CONSULTATION WITH THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT, THE NORTHERN IRELAND GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED TO ACTIVATE ITS POWERS OF INTERNMENT.

IF THIS MOVE ENABLES US TO REDUCE THE NUMBER OF TROOPS COMMITTED TO NORTHERN IRELAND EARLIER THAN WE COULD OTHERWISE HAVE DONE, THAT WILL BE A WELCOME CONSEQUENCE OF IT.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_196')
	IF THIS MOVE ENABLES US TO REDUCE THE NUMBER OF TROOPS COMMITTED TO NORTHERN IRELAND EARLIER THAN WE COULD OTHERWISE HAVE DONE, THAT WILL BE A WELCOME CONSEQUENCE OF IT.

There would be advantage in bringing in a number of suspects for questioning, but that too would entail the use of special powers of detention which he was anxious to avoid.	('PREM_15_477', 'IMG_5578')
	There would be advantage in bringing in a number of suspects for questioning, but that too would entail the use of special powers of detention which he was anxious to avoid.

Mr. Smith said that in his view recent IRA activity was grounded in The weekend incidents at the "Daily Mirror" 
The Governmnt was worried at the attitude of business.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2219')
	The Governmnt was worried at the attitude of business.

THE HOME SECRETARY EXPLAINED THE BACKGROUND TO THE INTRODUCTION OF INTERNMENT AS MADE NECESSARY BY THE RECENT INCREASE IN VIOLENCE AT A TIME WHEN POLITICAL DEVELOPMENT HAD BEEN MOVING FORWARD: HE EMPHASISED THAT THE MEASURE WAS NON-DISCRIMINATORY AND AIMED ONLY AT THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR VIOLENCE, AND THAT IT WAS DESIGNED TO RESTORE A MORE PEACEFUL SITUATION IN WHICH REFORMS COULD CONTINUE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_149')
	THE HOME SECRETARY EXPLAINED THE BACKGROUND TO THE INTRODUCTION OF INTERNMENT AS MADE NECESSARY BY THE RECENT INCREASE IN VIOLENCE AT A TIME WHEN POLITICAL DEVELOPMENT HAD BEEN MOVING FORWARD: HE EMPHASISED THAT THE MEASURE WAS NON-DISCRIMINATORY AND AIMED ONLY AT THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR VIOLENCE, AND THAT IT WAS DESIGNED TO RESTORE A MORE PEACEFUL SITUATION IN WHICH REFORMS COULD CONTINUE.

(ATTRIBUTABLE) 
B. THE SECTARIAN RIOTING OF 1969 IS NOW LONG PAST.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_166')
	THE SECTARIAN RIOTING OF 1969 IS NOW LONG PAST. WHAT WE NOW FACE IS ARMED ATTACKS BY THE IRA.

assessing the security implications of the release of internees.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6743')
	The Prime inister has asked that the Defence 
Secretary should look at the attached telegrams nos. 18 and 19 of 17 February from Belfast to the Home Office about a paper put forward jointly 
and the R.U.C. 
assessing the security implications of the release of internees

The emphasis is on arresting people only if they are wanted in connection with criminal offences but Regulation 11 (1) under the Special Powers Act may be used in certain circumstances.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7621')
	The emphasis is on arresting people only if they are wanted in connection with criminal offences but Regulation 11 (1) under the Special Powers Act may be used in certain circumstances.

Frustrations continue to occur when apparently serious offenders are released on bail rather than being held on remand.	('DEFE_13_1358', 'IMG_9725')
	Frustrations continue to occur when apparently serious offenders are released on bail rather than being held on remand.

We have done so fully recog- 
nising that each of us remains committed to his publicly stated position on the constitutional status of Northern Ireland; and we have been concerned to see whether, without prejudice to those positions, we can find some agreed means of enabling all the people of Northern Ireland to live in the conditions of peace and stability which any democracy should ensure to its citizens without regard to their religious or political conviction.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5696')
	We have done so fully recog- 
nising that each of us remains committed to his publicly stated position on the constitutional status of Northern Ireland; and we have been concerned to see whether, without prejudice to those positions, we can find some agreed means of enabling all the people of Northern Ireland to live in the conditions of peace and stability which any democracy should ensure to its citizens without regard to their religious or political conviction.

The Prime Minister has now seen Holy See telegram He is not convinced by the argument 
in paragraph 3 against a further message dealing specifically with internment since he feels that a personal explanation from himself will mate much more of an impact on Pope Paul than discussions with Vatican officials.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9330')
	He is not convinced by the argument 
in paragraph 3 against a further message dealing specifically with internment since he feels that a personal explanation from himself will mate much more of an impact on Pope Paul than discussions with Vatican officials.

Interrogation was necessary to produce the intelligence which the security forces needed.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1932')
	The judges’ rules were simply not compatible with the gaining of intelligence. In Mr Johnston’s view it was still essential to gain intelligence 
- the initiative might fail, or it might take a 
long time to succeed: in any event it would be wrong of the security forces not to keep themselves well informed of the threat of subversion. Interrogation was necessary to produce the intelligence which the security forces needed.

TO RESTRICT ARRESTS FOR DETENTION TO LEADING IRA MEMBERS ONLY MAY BE POSSIBLE IN THOSE AREAS WHERE THE SECURITY FORCES ALREADY DOMINATE THE TWO IRA FACTIONS BUT SUCH A DECISION WOULD INHIBIT SECURITY FORCE ACTION IN AREAS WHERE THE IRA IS STILL OPERATING EFFECTIVELY.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6772')
	TO RESTRICT ARRESTS FOR DETENTION TO LEADING IRA MEMBERS ONLY MAY BE POSSIBLE IN THOSE AREAS WHERE THE SECURITY FORCES ALREADY DOMINATE THE TWO IRA FACTIONS BUT SUCH A DECISION WOULD INHIBIT SECURITY FORCE ACTION IN AREAS WHERE THE IRA IS STILL OPERATING EFFECTIVELY.

THEY ARGUED THAT INTERNMENT INTRODUCED BY THE FAULKNER GOVERNMENT AND APPLIED ONLY AGAINST CATHOLICS 
INTERNMENT AS SOON AS THE SECURITY.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7890')
	INTERNMENT AS SOON AS THE SECURITY. SITUATION ALTERED, AND HE EXPLAINED THE DIFFICULTIES IN THIS (APART OF COURSE FROM THAT OF THE MORALE OF PART OF THE SECURITY FORCES).

But as long as there were The Pope 
wished the Prime Minister well in his efforts to resolve this long outstanding and intractable problem.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8245')
	The Prime Minister said he hoped that the Pope felt that 
the British Governent was indeed trying to restore freedom. This was certainly the case. 
gunmen we should regrettably need troops. 
But as long as there were

We would use the procedures of the Advisory Body to help us to decide who should be let out and how the present rate of release 
- 44 so far - could 
be speeded up.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4925')
	We would use the procedures of the Advisory Body to help us to decide who should be let out and how the present rate of release 
- 44 so far - could 
be speeded up.

The military operations to which you refer 
are designed solely for the defence of the people against armed terrorists whose activities, many of which originate in or are supported from the Republic, I hope you would deplore and join us in suppressing.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5864')
	The military operations to which you refer 
are designed solely for the defence of the people against armed terrorists whose activities, many of which originate in or are supported from the Republic, I hope you would deplore and join us in suppressing.

Internment 
MR. FAULKNER said that he would not agree to any proposal for the use of the internment powers in the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Acts, unless he was advised by the Army and the police that internment would bring IRA terrorism decisively to an end.	('PREM_15_477', 'IMG_5578')
	MR. FAULKNER said that he would not agree to any proposal for the use of the internment powers in the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Acts, unless he was advised by the Army and the police that internment would bring IRA terrorism decisively to an end.

The latest series of acts of terrorism by the I.R.A. and their recent declarations of their intention to continue and even	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_198')
	The latest series of acts of terrorism by the I.R.A. and their recent declarations of their intention to continue and even

YOU SHOULD DRAW PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO PARAGRAPH 9 EXPRESSING THE PRIME MINISTER’S HOPE THAT MR LYNCH’S PUBLIC RESPONSE WILL BE HELPFUL PARTICULARLY IN CONDEMNING VIOLENCE, WITH THE AIM OF HIS MAKING CLEAR TO THE MINORITY IN THE NORTH THAT THEY SHOULD NOT INTERPET THE MEASURES TAKEN AS DIRECTED AGAINST THEM BUT ONLY AT INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE DELIBERATELY USING VIOLENCE TO CREATE DISORDER.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_178')
	YOU SHOULD DRAW PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO PARAGRAPH 9 EXPRESSING THE PRIME MINISTER’S HOPE THAT MR LYNCH’S PUBLIC RESPONSE WILL BE HELPFUL PARTICULARLY IN CONDEMNING VIOLENCE, WITH THE AIM OF HIS MAKING CLEAR TO THE MINORITY IN THE NORTH THAT THEY SHOULD NOT INTERPET THE MEASURES TAKEN AS DIRECTED AGAINST THEM BUT ONLY AT INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE DELIBERATELY USING VIOLENCE TO CREATE DISORDER.

We may yet have much to endure as a community: but if we endure it with courage and steadiness, the utter defeat of terrorism is sure.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_51')
	We may yet have much to endure as a community: but if we endure it with courage and steadiness, the utter defeat of terrorism is sure.

escalate their campaign have made it 
and Faulkner’s judgment was that the consequences of that for the community would be worse than the consequences of what is now proposed.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_199')
	Faulkner’s judgment was that the consequences of that for the community would be worse than the consequences of what is now proposed.

There can in fact be no exact answer to this question 
since, although we have a fairly clear idea of the number of activists that there were in each wing of the IRA immediately before internment, it is clear that they have been able to recoup at least some of their losses with new recruits 
- though it in also very 
clear that, in the process, the competence which their operations are conducted has fallen away considerably.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6716')
	There can in fact be no exact answer to this question 
since, although we have a fairly clear idea of the number of activists that there were in each wing of the IRA immediately before internment, it is clear that they have been able to recoup at least some of their losses with new recruits 
- though it in also very 
clear that, in the process, the competence which their operations are conducted has fallen away considerably.

The system in internment cams was practically confined to counter espionage.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2148')
	Sinn Fein Intelligence in Internment Camps. The system in internment cams was practically confined to counter espionage.

MR FAULKNER said that the view of the security forces was that it would be untimely to publish such a description, which might prejudice their chances of success in arresting the remainder of the persons whose detention was sought.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5873')
	MR FAULKNER said that the view of the security forces was that it would be untimely to publish such a description, which might prejudice their chances of success in arresting the remainder of the persons whose detention was sought.

A/BR/20201/19/MO 3 AS (GS) NORTHERN IRELAND 
1. If the pakage deal does indeed turn out to be internment in exchange for a ban on parades for six months coupled with no new rifle clubs, the following thoughts occur to me.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2185')
	If the pakage deal does indeed turn out to be internment in exchange for a ban on parades for six months coupled with no new rifle clubs, the following thoughts occur to me.

Identities to be disclosed only to the bench.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6754')
	Police should attend the Court in person, but with the right to remain anonymous. Identities to be disclosed only to the bench.

IT IS HARD TO IMAGINE WHAT MILITARY ADVANTAGE IT COULD POSSIBLY HAVE TO OUTWEIGH THE HOSTILITY IT WOULD AROUSE AND THE BOOST IT WOULD GIVE TO THE I R A. 
5. I AM COPYING THIS TELEGRAM TO UKREP BELFAST.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6465')
	IF THE RUMOUR ABOUT INTERNING WOMEN IS FALSE, IT WOULD BE AS WELL TO KILL IT QUICKLY. IT IS HARD TO IMAGINE WHAT MILITARY ADVANTAGE IT COULD POSSIBLY HAVE TO OUTWEIGH THE HOSTILITY IT WOULD AROUSE AND THE BOOST IT WOULD GIVE TO THE I R A.

When Faulkner came to London last week, he told The security forces have 
in fact been carrying out such an operation this morning.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_185')
	When Faulkner came to London last week, he told

This means that the relentless pursuit 
of those members of the I.R.A.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5592')
	This means that the relentless pursuit 
of those members of the I.R.A. still on the wanted list will continue.

Because of this, and taking into account also the further damage which any serious public disorder however occasioned would do to commerce, industry and indeed the community as a whole.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2164')
	Because of this, and taking into account also the further damage which any serious public disorder however occasioned would do to commerce, industry and indeed the community as a whole.

Intelligence is the.	('DEFE_13_917', 'IMG_2327')
	Intelligence is the. key to successful operations

(e) 
anyone caught in the company of someone caught in the act of committing,	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1760')
	anyone caught in the company of someone caught in the act of committing, or having just committed, a criminal offence, if there is reason to think he may be able to give information about the offence or important information about the IRA generally

of the IRA over the weekend had made tho situation much worse.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2220')
	of the IRA over the weekend had made tho situation much worse.

the right and indeed inevitable course.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_205')
	the right and indeed inevitable course.

9. It is with understandable reluctance that one uses these 
exceptional powers, but the organisations concerned are those which have murdered in cold blood, created situations which have led to death or injury to people quite uninvolved in disorder, maimed numerous people including young children and put at risk the jobs and the whole future of entire communities.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2163')
	9. It is with understandable reluctance that one uses these 
exceptional powers, but the organisations concerned are those which have murdered in cold blood, created situations which have led to death or injury to people quite uninvolved in disorder, maimed numerous people including young children and put at risk the jobs and the whole future of entire communities.

5. 
The Attorney General would support this proposal. 
WILLIAM NIELD 26 July 1972	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1865')
	It is suggested therefore that you should agree that suspects arrested under Regulation 11 may now be held for questioning for up to 72 hours before being charged, released or made the subject of a detention order. Where arrests are made under Regulation 10 in the first instance the total period should still not exceed 72 hours. 5. 
The Attorney General would support this proposal.

I think that these 
can be summarised as follows:(1) 
In principle internment has been a success.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6207')
	In principle internment has been a success. It has done what it was 
intended to do; and, although there may still be a long haul ahead, the chance of gradually bringing terrorism to an end are now reasonably good.

This element could numerically be strengthened if former detainees wore released under the Emergency Provisions Bill review procedure.	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1626')
	No matter how marked or general may be the RC 
community’s rejection of IRA violence, there is likely to remain an element within that community which is implacably and historically opposed to the British connection and accustomed to violence as a means of demonstrating its conviction. This element could numerically be strengthened if former detainees wore released under the Emergency Provisions Bill review procedure.

AND OTHER REFORMS THAT HAVE BEEN INTRODUCED AND ARE STILL TO COME ARE RECOGNISED AT THEIR TRUE VALUE, AND WILL NOT PREJUDICE CONTINUING PROGRESS ON THE TASK OF BUILDING MORE HARMONIOUS INTER-COMMUNITY RELATIONS IN NORTHERN IRELAND.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	OUR HOPE S THAT THESE MEASURES CAN BE STRICTl Y TEMPORARY, WILL SERVE TO REESTABLISH A SITUATION IN WHICH THE MANY SOCIAL. 
AND OTHER REFORMS THAT HAVE BEEN INTRODUCED AND ARE STILL TO COME ARE RECOGNISED AT THEIR TRUE VALUE, AND WILL NOT PREJUDICE CONTINUING PROGRESS ON THE TASK OF BUILDING MORE HARMONIOUS INTER-COMMUNITY RELATIONS IN NORTHERN IRELAND.

all except the really hard core internees and detainees were released.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8063')
	This leads one to speculate whether the almost inevitable Roman 
Catholic hostility to an announcement in the form of the draft annexed to the Secretary of State’s memorandum might be moderated (with possibly favourable consequences for the attitude of the SDLP) if the announcement was rather more positively worded, particularly by including an undertaking to introduce parallel legislation to dismantle the Special Powers Act, and if, at the same time as the announcement, all except the really hard core internees and detainees were released.

This week, for example, a man was permitted to leave internment to attend a double wedding and I was glad to authorise it. 
ill be	('PREM_15_1006', 'IMG_7291')
	I have also arranged that in future men who have a genuine reason for parole while my review is taking place 
- to attend a funeral, for example - 
allowed to stay out for twice the present period. From three days, to six days. 
I hope to be lenient in other domestic circumstances too. This week, for example, a man was permitted to leave internment to attend a double wedding and I was glad to authorise it.

one of conviction for a crime so as to remove the taint of internment.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7786')
	one of conviction for a crime so as to remove the taint of internment.

The Press - particularly Leader Writers - have on the 
whole accepted the inevitability of the use of special powers in Northern Ireland and their attitude has been constructive.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_152')
	The Press - particularly Leader Writers - have on the 
whole accepted the inevitability of the use of special powers in Northern Ireland and their attitude has been constructive.

The security forces 
and 
people suspected of responsibility for committing or abetting acts of terrorism and other breaches of the peace designed to lead to a breakdown of law and order in Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_198')
	The security forces 
and 
people suspected of responsibility for committing or abetting acts of terrorism and other breaches of the peace designed to lead to a breakdown of law and order in Northern Ireland.

Ireland That there should be a gradual reduction in 
internment, beginning with those internees who could be released without unacceptable risks.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7160')
	That there should be a gradual reduction in 
internment, beginning with those internees who could be released without unacceptable risks.

in the light of the latest assessment of the security situation in Northern Ireland and all other relevant factors,	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2195')
	in the light of the latest assessment of the security situation in Northern Ireland and all other relevant factors, and after consultation with the British Government, the Northern Ireland Government has decided to activate its powers of internment so as to enable the security forces to arrest and detain peoplesuspected of responsibility for committing or abetting acts of terrorism and other breaches of the peace designed to lead to a breakdown, of law and order in Northern Ireland.

tni ºuocesfttl lyem w01 Eetsino, It wt obe pr6eat, the, ofore, i View of the serious Prism taffing Prblex which egotso4y t -exaine, inthelighta the peciaciircustaceo of i1neant ’rotestant terrorig, the possibility of% 
a. b, Trnferring prisners to a prisO II Rinforeing, still further, the Northern Ireladpri son staff from GB, 12. The force level in Northern Irelnd will reduce on current plan 
by 1 December to 16 major unite.	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1507')
	W Totegat Violas#e gruted WA the "Utir of 1rtssted Fo.~tni ºuocesfttl lyem w01 Eetsino, It wt obe pr6eat, the, ofore, i View of the serious Prism taffing Prblex which egotso4y t -exaine, inthelighta the peciaciircustaceo of i1neant ’rotestant terrorig, the possibility of% 
a. b, Trnferring prisners to a prisO II Rinforeing, still further, the Northern Ireladpri son staff from GB,

This, 
however, must be on the basis that all marches would be banned indefinitely; even if the Government of Northern Ireland’s powers in this respect were of only limited duration, they would have to be periodically renewed.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_211')
	This, 
however, must be on the basis that all marches would be banned indefinitely; even if the Government of Northern Ireland’s powers in this respect were of only limited duration, they would have to be periodically renewed.

Political progress in Northern Ireland is bound to be impeded so long as violence and intimidation continue; and the purpose of internment, and of the Army’s measures which are directed impartially at violence from whatever quarter, is to restore to Northern Ireland the necessary degree of stability for further political advance.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5858')
	Political progress in Northern Ireland is bound to be impeded so long as violence and intimidation continue; and the purpose of internment, and of the Army’s measures which are directed impartially at violence from whatever quarter, is to restore to Northern Ireland the necessary degree of stability for further political advance.

It was necessary that Detention Orders should.-	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1932')
	It was necessary that Detention Orders should.-be signed, and that people should be interrogated. This was something Ministers could and would defend.

There had been nothing like this in English legal history since we Seventeenth Century.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4988')
	The Prime Minister asked Lord Parker about the 
suggestion that was often made that special courts should be set up to try internees. Lord Parker said that he found it difficult to conceive of a criminal court in which the identity of a prosecution witness was kept secret from the accused and his legal representatives. There had been nothing like this in English legal history since we Seventeenth Century.

the reyal purpoco of tho accommodation munt not be divulgod in public,’ the Northorn Ireland Govornment have confirmod that they can see no viay in overcoming two major difficultico.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2262')
	Givon that. the reyal purpoco of tho accommodation munt not be divulgod in public,’ the Northorn Ireland Govornment have confirmod that they can see no viay in overcoming two major difficultico

10th November, 1971 In connection with a civil action which is being brought 
in the Northern Ireland courts against the RUC and the Ministry of Defence, as a result of the arrests made on 9th August, we consider it necessary to claim Crown Privilege for some of the documents which would otherwise have to be disclosed in the action.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_5974')
	In connection with a civil action which is being brought 
in the Northern Ireland courts against the RUC and the Ministry of Defence, as a result of the arrests made on 9th August, we consider it necessary to claim Crown Privilege for some of the documents which would otherwise have to be disclosed in the action. Since the claim would be made for reasons of security, it needs the approval not only of the Attorney General (which is being sought concurrently by the Treasury Solicitor) but also of the Prime Minister, before the Secretary of State can sign the necessary certificate.

This remains my view. 
I recognise entirely the sincerity of the Noble Earl in his opposition to internment; I must ask him in turn to recognise the sincerity of my own conviction and that of the Government, that the situation nevertheless continues to justify the use of internment at present,	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6632')
	I recognise entirely the sincerity of the Noble Earl in his opposition to internment; I must ask him in turn to recognise the sincerity of my own conviction and that of the Government, that the situation nevertheless continues to justify the use of internment at present,

MR. FAULKNER They are satisfied that they have got nothing 
on which they could issue a warrant.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5824')
	They are satisfied that they have got nothing 
on which they could issue a warrant. If he landed here they would certainly lift him under the special powers but I gather that there is no hope of being able to use these outside Northern Ireland.

Included in the eight other arrests was a Provisional Officer and two volunteers.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9291')
	Included in the eight other arrests was a Provisional Officer and two volunteers.

This, would not necessarily mean overriding the existing review procedure (unless and until it was judged expedient for symbolic reasons to dispense with Judge Brown and his colleagues) but the review committee would need to be given fresh policy directions and perhaps additional personnel so as to speed up their work.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6574')
	This, would not necessarily mean overriding the existing review procedure (unless and until it was judged expedient for symbolic reasons to dispense with Judge Brown and his colleagues) but the review committee would need to be given fresh policy directions and perhaps additional personnel so as to speed up their work.

The words to be used are: "I suspect you of being about to commit (or of committing) acts prejudicial to the peace". 
e. Soldiers are not to photograph pickets or voters.	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1724')
	Where a breach of the peace is not committed, but the 
conduct of the pickets is intimidatory, they should be arrested only if there is no other way to get them to desist. In these circumstances the power of arrest to be used is SPA Regulation 11, in accordance with the Blue Card. The words to be used are: "I suspect you of being about to commit (or of committing) acts prejudicial to the peace".

It is hoped to follow with the circulation of a Category 2 list which will 
contain the names of all those persons in respect of whom there is hard intelligence indicating their involvement in the commission of crimes but no evidence.	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1772')
	It is hoped to follow with the circulation of a Category 2 list which will 
contain the names of all those persons in respect of whom there is hard intelligence indicating their involvement in the commission of crimes but no evidence.

As regards the public presentation of the decision to introduce internment and a ban on marches, it would be necessary to make it clear that it was the Government of Northern Ireland which had proposed this course after consultation with the United Kingdom Government.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_213')
	As regards the public presentation of the decision to introduce internment and a ban on marches, it would be necessary to make it clear that it was the Government of Northern Ireland which had proposed this course after consultation with the United Kingdom Government.

Your hope is that by removing the terrorist elements from the active political scene, it will be possible for the communities of Northern Ireland to get a sense of nerspective and balance. 
HENRY L. JAMES	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_154')
	Of course you 
deplore all that has happened over the weekend and since in acts of terrorism and senseless killing of innocent persons. Your hope is that by removing the terrorist elements from the active political scene, it will be possible for the communities of Northern Ireland to get a sense of nerspective and balance.

The Home Secretary said that it was not that the 
role of the army had changed but that circumstances had changed in that the army found itself attacked by terrorists from Catholic areas.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_144')
	The Home Secretary said that it was not that the 
role of the army had changed but that circumstances had changed in that the army found itself attacked by terrorists from Catholic areas. did not know or care about the affiliations of someone sniping at him. 
He 
emphasised that the bombing, the murder and the withdrawal of the Opposition from Stormont had all taken place before internment had been introduced.

LEGAL MATTERS 4. 
It has been confirmed that there is no objection to charges being brought 
of membership of the IRA, being an unlawful association under the Special Powers Act.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7842')
	It has been confirmed that there is no objection to charges being brought 
of membership of the IRA, being an unlawful association under the Special Powers Act. When there is evidence, arrests can therefore be made with a view to charges being brought.

3. At the end of February, another compound at Long Kesh will be ready and it 
is proposed to transfer to it most of those in the less dangerous category.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4980')
	At the end of February, another compound at Long Kesh will be ready and it 
is proposed to transfer to it most of those in the less dangerous category. There are great difficulties in preventing control of internment camps from passing to the IRA leadership, but the opening of a new compound for the less intransigent provides an opportunity for establishing proper control.

HE COULD INTRODUCE IT AS A DRASTIC MEASURE IF THERE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_229')
	HE COULD INTRODUCE IT AS A DRASTIC MEASURE IF THERE.WERE A TOTAL BREAKDOWN OF THE SYSTEM OF JUSTICE.

6. 
I SAID THAT AS ALHAY’,S I SAID THAT THEY WOULD hAVE ANOTH FR 
TALK WITH THEIR PROVISIONAL IRA COITACTS AND WOULD THE; t.IKE TO SEE PE AGAIN.	('PREM_15_1016', 'IMG_8672')
	I SAID THAT AS ALHAY’,S I SAID THAT THEY WOULD hAVE ANOTH FR 
TALK WITH THEIR PROVISIONAL IRA COITACTS AND WOULD THE; t.IKE TO SEE PE AGAIN. NUCH WOULD DEPEOD ON ’WIETi’El MACSTI’;FAIN STAYED IN FRISO OR NOT. 
:L.Ot.D BE GLA TO LIST0 TO WOAT 
THEY HAD TO SAY, OUT I DIDI r,’A’IT TO GIVE Tilf"1 OR AidYOnE ELSE THE IDEA THAT WE WERE WI1ING TO NFCT’l ATE WITH THE IRA THROUGH TIE

2. 
He will at the same time announce that all marches and parades are banned until further notice.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_185')
	He will at the same time announce that all marches and parades are banned until further notice.

This tribunal will be asked to 
consider cases referred to it by the Secretary of State (which will include cases of those presently in internment), to determine the nature of their involvement in terrorist activities, and either to order release or to impose a definite period of detention.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8057')
	Meantime, the Government reaffirms its determination to 
improve the security situation in Northern Ireland and to deal with terrorists, including those who, for the reasons indicated earlier, cannot easily be dealt with through the normal processes of the criminal law. 
Pending the report of the commission and of 
the subsequent legislation on it, the Government therefore proposes at an early date to introduce interim legislation under the Special Powers Act to set up a special tribunal to deal with persons accused of terrorist activities by means of a procedure which will preserve the essentials of natural justice, but which will be matched to the special conditions which unfortunately obtain in Northern Ireland. 
This tribunal will be asked to 
consider cases referred to it by the Secretary of State (which will include cases of those presently in internment), to determine the nature of their involvement in terrorist activities, and either to order release or to impose a definite period of detention.

There are some indications that the Provisional IRA 
leadership might be prepared to call off the campaign of violence even though their extreme demands 
- the abolition 
of Stormont, the release of all internees and "political prisoners" and the withdraal of the British Army from Northern Ireland 
- were not met.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7216')
	There are some indications that the Provisional IRA 
leadership might be prepared to call off the campaign of violence even though their extreme demands 
- the abolition 
of Stormont, the release of all internees and "political prisoners" and the withdraal of the British Army from Northern Ireland 
- were not met.

after violence ends 
(2) Transfer of responsibility for whole of security, law and order from Stormont to Westminster.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7236')
	out of Special Powers Act and replacement by less objectionable legislation, making use of internment dependent on declaration of emergency. 
Periodical referenda on Border. after violence ends

I understand that 
in this case, Stormont rather than Westminster would be the appropriate authority.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5717')
	n the question of publication of the 
report of the visit, we understand that this would normally be published subject to the agreement of the country concerned. 
I understand that 
in this case, Stormont rather than Westminster would be the appropriate authority.

And even if a total or partial ending of internment enabled 
political talks to start a fully armed terrorist organization in the background with its ranks re-filled would inevitably dominate the course of any negotiations.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6968')
	defeated can in any way assist towards a political solution. 
Nor is it easy to see how the ending of internment before the IRA are The opposition 
have no control over the IRA and therefore no means of bringing terrorism itself under control. 
And even if a total or partial ending of internment enabled 
political talks to start a fully armed terrorist organization in the background with its ranks re-filled would inevitably dominate the course of any negotiations.

The point had been made in discussion that, when factors came to the knowledge of the Northern Ireland Government that pointed to the need for continued detention of a person whose release was recommended by the Advisory Committee, they should be put before the Committee for consideration.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6176')
	The point had been made in discussion that, when factors came to the knowledge of the Northern Ireland Government that pointed to the need for continued detention of a person whose release was recommended by the Advisory Committee, they should be put before the Committee for consideration.

Most opposition groups, having given it a cautious welcome, are clearly suspending judgement until they know more of its details. 
It was announced on 21st August that the Government had	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5837')
	It was announced on 21st August that the Government had

signs of wanting to investigate every detail of the handling of the prisoner since he first came into the hands of the Police: this would include his handling at a Police holding centre, and although Mr Johnston was sure that it could be demonstrated that nothing untoward had happened, the very process of proving this would be lengthy and tiresome, and would expose to public identification a large number of Special Branch officers whose identities were not generally known.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1932')
	signs of wanting to investigate every detail of the handling of the prisoner since he first came into the hands of the Police: this would include his handling at a Police holding centre,

V/ THE SITLATIC ’EFCFE 
C" THE CCN’TFAFY, IT VAS DETERICFATIING, DAY BY CAY AND WEEK PY VEEK.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6925')
	V/ THE SITLATIC ’EFCFE 
C" THE CCN’TFAFY, IT VAS DETERICFATIING, DAY BY CAY AND WEEK PY VEEK. "’CT C’LN ’EE 
’E L.CSIG LES AND PROPERTY EUT ’ACST CAAI"’G C f ALL - VE VERE SHCVING SIGNE CF w LCSS CF 
CCF IP’CE /"’ / LC¶S CF I CPE. WHAT GCVERNMENT WITH A SHRED Cr RE-=C"I rIL ITY ’C Iis PLCPLE CCULD HAVE ALLCWEC THAT SITU/1 !C’ T CV.T I"UIE

If Protestants engaged in terrorism they too would 
be dealt with; so far there was no infomation to confirm that Protestants had been sniping.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_145')
	would be Protestants. If Protestants engaged in terrorism they too would 
be dealt with; so far there was no infomation to confirm that Protestants had been sniping.

THESE HAVE INCLUDED FOR THE FIRST TIME WELL-PLANNED OPERATIONS BY GANGS OF UP TO A DOZEN MEN, WHICH SHOWS THE GROWING CONFIDENCE -WITH WHICH THE IRA IS NOW OPERATING.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_165')
	THESE HAVE INCLUDED FOR THE FIRST TIME WELL-PLANNED OPERATIONS BY GANGS OF UP TO A DOZEN MEN, WHICH SHOWS THE GROWING CONFIDENCE -WITH WHICH THE IRA IS NOW OPERATING.

e1aNd !`	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6721')
	e1aNd !`erppthe 
e4nlete fi as for those arrnted in Northern pel Powrs Aots are as follows. They are 
RleyAed tt hout detention order Rlaased after detentioni order 
Ra1ºsed after considerntion by Advisory ComIttee Rloaod 
-lfro interinmet on P900mmOndntion of ’"0 
Hold under Regulation 10 Held under detention order Interned 
Thr latest figurs for the Judee Brown kdvisory Committee 
as at 12 Janunry are:Cases reviewed 
thuber who refsed to appear before the Committee 
Not recommended for release Recommended for release Released 
Refused to take oath and consequently still interned 
Recommendations still with the Kinistry of Home Affairs Cases adjourned

(e) anyone caught in the company of someone caught in the act of committing,	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7929')
	anyone caught in the company of someone caught in the act of committing, or having just committed, a criminal offence, if there is reason to think he may be able to give information about the offence or important information about the IRA generally.

The severe dislocation of command and communication systems 
has left behind something more in the nature of a cell structure, and operations are largely carried out by small active service units, many of them based in the South.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6957')
	Taking the situation in Northern 
Ireland as a whole, about 140 important members on the wanted list are now in the Irish Republic. 
The severe dislocation of command and communication systems 
has left behind something more in the nature of a cell structure, and operations are largely carried out by small active service units, many of them based in the South.

(c) The reinstatement of internment and interrogation would be inevitable (on the basis of a potential "bag" of about 1600 additional internees in the first two weeks); and it would also be necessary to arrest on suspicion alone.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_4')
	The reinstatement of internment and interrogation would be inevitable (on the basis of a potential "bag" of about 1600 additional internees in the first two weeks); and it would also be necessary to arrest on suspicion alone.

The Committee will need not only to consider the weight of the arguments in paragraphs 5 and 6 on their own merits but also to be ready to consider them in the possible context of strong pressure on us to save Major Chichester-Clark’s Government by agreeing to internment.	('PREM_15_476', 'IMG_5453')
	The Committee will need not only to consider the weight of the arguments in paragraphs 5 and 6 on their own merits but also to be ready to consider them in the possible context of strong pressure on us to save Major Chichester-Clark’s Government by agreeing to internment.

EXPERIENCE PRIOR TO 9 AUG 71 MADE IT ABUNDANTLY CLEAR THAT POLICE QUESTIONING WITHOUT THE SANCTION OF DETENTION OF INTERNMENT IS TOTALLY INEFFECTIVE AS AN INTELLIGENCE WEAPON IN CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE THOSE ARRESTED HAVE BEEN WELL BRIEFED ON THEIR RIGHTS.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6772')
	EXPERIENCE PRIOR TO 9 AUG 71 MADE IT ABUNDANTLY CLEAR THAT POLICE QUESTIONING WITHOUT THE SANCTION OF DETENTION OF INTERNMENT IS TOTALLY INEFFECTIVE AS AN INTELLIGENCE WEAPON IN CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE THOSE ARRESTED HAVE BEEN WELL BRIEFED ON THEIR RIGHTS.

Third, there are about 80 terrorists, including most of the key ones, against whom we are not in a position to prefer charges of the normal sort partly because they do not themselves indulge over much in specific acts of terrorism, but rather organise them: partly because it is extremely difficult to get any evidence against them which will stand up in a court of law: and partly because the witnesses we might bring against them would all be in danger of their lives.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7783')
	Third, there are about 80 terrorists, including most of the key ones, against whom we are not in a position to prefer charges of the normal sort partly because they do not themselves indulge over much in specific acts of terrorism, but rather organise them: partly because it is extremely difficult to get any evidence against them which will stand up in a court of law: and partly because the witnesses we might bring against them would all be in danger of their lives.

As the disturbances have continued since Monday morning, there has been a slight decline of confidence 
- largely from the 
mistaken assumption at the out set that the use of internment would remove all terrorists and intimidation.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_152')
	As the disturbances have continued since Monday morning, there has been a slight decline of confidence 
- largely from the 
mistaken assumption at the out set that the use of internment would remove all terrorists and intimidation.

especially where internment is concerned.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6576')
	If Ministers in London agree that it would be right, in a period of much-reduced terrorist activity, to ease up on security measures generally and internment in particular, they will wish to consider how they could best carry the Northern Ireland Government with them in thus varyingthe tactics 
- since the 
co-operation of the Northern Ireland authorities would be essential if the new approach were to achieve its object of generating further de-escalation, especially where internment is concerned.

4. YOU MAY AS APPROPRIATE DRAW UPON THE FOLLOWING POINTS: A. INTERNMENT IS AIMED ONLY AGAINST INDIVIDUALS 
CONDUCTING 
VIOLENCE AND TERRORISM, AND NOT AGAINST A RELIGIOUS MINORITY.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_166')
	INTERNMENT IS AIMED ONLY AGAINST INDIVIDUALS 
CONDUCTING 
VIOLENCE AND TERRORISM, AND NOT AGAINST A RELIGIOUS MINORITY. THE MEASURES TAKEN WILL NOT DISCRIMINATE BETWEEN THE DIFFERENT SECTIONS OF THE COMMUNITY, EXCEPT AS THE FACTS OF THE SITUATION MAKE INEVITABLE.

The duration of the detention would also be affected by the duration of the Act itself.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7787')
	If the court found the case proved, it would commit the accused to preventive detention, and there would be provision for release by the Secretary of State on conditional licence. The duration of the detention would also be affected by the duration of the Act itself.

3. THERE WILL BE A SEPARATE ANNOUNCEMENT THAT ALL OUTSTANDING APPLICATIONS TO START RIFLE CLUBS ARE BEING REFUSED, AND THAT NO NEW APPLICATIONS WILL BE CONSIDERED, 4. YOU WILL UNDERSTAND WHY IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO GIVE NOTICE OF A DECISION TO INTRODUCE INTERNMENT BEFORE THE OPERATION TO GIVE EFFECT TO IT.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_175')
	THERE WILL BE A SEPARATE ANNOUNCEMENT THAT ALL OUTSTANDING APPLICATIONS TO START RIFLE CLUBS ARE BEING REFUSED, AND THAT NO NEW APPLICATIONS WILL BE CONSIDERED,

Anyone arrested under (c) above will be questioned in this second way immediately.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7929')
	Anyone arrested under (c) above will be questioned in this second way immediately.

the order in which te a should be holds Arrest Polty for n poaiama Muisesmis h ua	('DEFE_13_1358', 'IMG_9587')
	Arrest Polty for n poaiama Muisesmis h ua 
The oesrtary of tte hadso"Wd for a paper s this subject to be prepared by the M4 and the Ohief# establo

The motion without the Craig-West amendment was carried by 29 votes to 7. While this undoubtedly represents a parliamentary victory for Major Chichester-Clark albeit a not unexpected one, it is clear that at least some of the signatories to the motion saw it as an opportunity to put pressure on the Government to take yet tougher action against rioters.	('PREM_15_474', 'IMG_5256')
	While this undoubtedly represents a parliamentary victory for Major Chichester-Clark albeit a not unexpected one, it is clear that at least some of the signatories to the motion saw it as an opportunity to put pressure on the Government to take yet tougher action against rioters.

which has been responsible for recent acts of terrorism, and whose victims have included Protestant and Roman Catholic alike.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_51')
	The main target of the present operation is the Irish 
Republican Army.which has been responsible for recent acts of terrorism, and whose victims have included Protestant and Roman Catholic alike

the preferring of a criminal charge or their being lodged in a place specified in a detention order". 
The Home Secretary said that 
the inquiry should take place in private to ensure the personal safety of those attending it and their families and that the two sides should not meet while giving evidence.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5629')
	"To investigate allegations by those arrested on 9 August under the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act Northern Ireland) 1922 of physical brutality while in the custody of the security forces prior to either their subsequent release, the preferring of a criminal charge or their being lodged in a place specified in a detention order".

eglation 10 enables the police to arrest and detain a person for up to 48 hours But the regulation givoa no similar poor 
suspects to be put temporarily out of the way during a particular :oyal Visit.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2172')
	eglation 10 enables the police to arrest and detain a person for up to 48 hours But the regulation givoa no similar poor 
suspects to be put temporarily out of the way during a particular :oyal Visit. It was not drafted as part of detention and internment procedure. 
Furthermore, the original purpose of the Regulation ws to enable Should it, 
therefore, be ignored and Regulation 11 used instead as authority to make arrests?

or actively involved in it.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5589')
	Persons who may be members of the Civil Rights 
Movement or the People’s Democracy, or of other organisation, are being interned only if they are also members of the I.R.A. or actively involved in it.

The Home Secretary said that much of the criticism in the recent debate 
had centred on procedures for internment.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6262')
	The Home Secretary said that much of the criticism in the recent debate 
had centred on procedures for internment. If these could be modified it would be easier to retain support for the principle of internment itself. Mr. Faulkner said that this was under active consideration.

In addition to the tasks and priorities in 
Reference A: (1) 
Phase 1. (Before Violence Erupts) (a) 
Continue a selective arrest policy against 
Protestant terrorists against whom evidence exists sufficient for criminal proceedings or the signing of ICOs.	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1476')
	Continue a selective arrest policy against 
Protestant terrorists against whom evidence exists sufficient for criminal proceedings or the signing of ICOs. 
(b) Prepare, when ordered, to arrest simultaneously 
all those active Protestant terrorists who are known to be involved in bombing. (c) 
Continue selective searches for Protestant 
extremist arms, ammunition, explosive and equipment.

3. IRA Activity.	('DEFE_13_1358', 'IMG_9599')
	IRA Activity. Reports continue to indicate that Provisional morale is low 
and that they have found it increasingly difficult to operate due to SF domination. They have been further hampered by selective arrests and subsequent detention of senior officers the most important of which was Cornelius McHugh, the Operations Officer of the 1st Battalion in Belfast.

THE DI-SC3EDIENCE CAlFPM1GN WOULD BE STEPPED UPi BERNADETTEDEVLFthI I43EPEtENT NPs FOR MI DULSTERy 
SAID IT WAS "TYPI-CALLY SNEAKT** AND WOULD INTENSIFY THE GIVIL RIGHTS’ CAMPAIrIGN THE ANNOUNCEMENT CAE SHORTL AFTER ANOTER 24 HOURS 
OF IlrRTAw TERROR IN ULSTER’S TROUBLED CtT’IES WHICH LEFT TWO SOLDIERS AND A CIVILIAN EAD AND FIVE SOLDIERS WOUNDED,	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5601')
	THE ANNOUNCEMENT CAE SHORTL AFTER ANOTER 24 HOURS 
OF IlrRTAw TERROR IN ULSTER’S TROUBLED CtT’IES WHICH LEFT TWO SOLDIERS AND A CIVILIAN EAD AND FIVE SOLDIERS WOUNDED, THREE SERIOUSLY9

THE SECURITY FORCES ARE ACCORDINGLY DETAINING PEOPLE SUSPECTED OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR TERRORISM, AT THE SAME TIME A BAN ON ALL MARCHES AND PARADES WAS ANNOUNCED: THIS BAN, WHICH IS INITIALLY FOR-SIX MONTHS, COVERS A MAJOR PROTESTANT EVENT WHICH HAD BEEN DUE THIS WEEK, THE APPRENTICE BOYS’ MARCH IN LONDONDERRY.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_165')
	HE SECURITY FORCES ARE ACCORDINGLY DETAINING PEOPLE SUSPECTED OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR TERRORISM, AT THE SAME TIME A BAN ON ALL MARCHES AND PARADES WAS ANNOUNCED: THIS BAN, WHICH IS INITIALLY FOR-SIX MONTHS, COVERS A MAJOR PROTESTANT EVENT WHICH HAD BEEN DUE THIS WEEK, THE APPRENTICE BOYS’ MARCH IN LONDONDERRY.

Because he was known to be bringing this The 
other 97 have, however, since been interned and the Northern Ireland Government have been advised by their lawyers that the internment cancels out any defect in the arresting procedure at the time of detention.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6143')
	It does not, however, follow that the procedure applied 
in the case of Mr. McElduff has to be applied in the case of the other 97. 
case, he was not interned but was kept in detention. 
Because he was known to be bringing this The 
other 97 have, however, since been interned and the Northern Ireland Government have been advised by their lawyers that the internment cancels out any defect in the arresting procedure at the time of detention.

It envisages rather that persons against whom there is insufficient evidence to secure a conviction under the criminal law (including the Special Powers Act provisions) should nevertheless be detained if their conduct has involved them in "complicity in any degree with terrorism generally". The ordinary rules of evidence will not be applied and the normal rights of an accused person in the criminal courts will not be available to him.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_8005')
	It envisages rather that persons against whom there is insufficient evidence to secure a conviction under the criminal law (including the Special Powers Act provisions) should nevertheless be detained if their conduct has involved them in "complicity in any degree with terrorism generally". The ordinary rules of evidence will not be applied and the normal rights of an accused person in the criminal courts will not be available to him. A decision on whether a person is "guilty" would be made by persons acting on hearsay in the exercise of their discretion.

The Secretary of State said that he must reserve his position on this since further releases would depend on events and he could not commit himself or his Cabinet colleagues in advance.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7899')
	The Secretary of State said that he must reserve his position on this since further releases would depend on events and he could not commit himself or his Cabinet colleagues in advance.

The Advisory Committee had already held 4 meetings and had considered 16 cases; 32 more cases were pending and further meetings fixed to consider them.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6175')
	The Advisory Committee had already held 4 meetings and had considered 16 cases; 32 more cases were pending and further meetings fixed to consider them. He was expecting the first batch of recommendations within the next few days.

PRIME MINISTER NORTHERN IRELAND: SPECIAL COURTS The reason for internment is that while a good deal is 
known about internees, the evidence, such as it is, would not in most cases stand up in court according to normal legal tests; further, even if the evidence were sufficient, there would be obvious objections to disclosing its nature to the defence or allowing a confrontation between the security forces and the accused.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4921')
	The reason for internment is that while a good deal is 
known about internees, the evidence, such as it is, would not in most cases stand up in court according to normal legal tests; further, even if the evidence were sufficient, there would be obvious objections to disclosing its nature to the defence or allowing a confrontation between the security forces and the accused. It is, therefore, sometimes suggested that special courts should be set up with their own procedure so that in appropriate cases persons at present interned could be brought before them.

in V.’otmintor, and through them tho Servico 
elomonc of the security forces in Northern Irelan, havo a Joint interest with the Stormont Government in the proper provision of-internment facilitio; b. 
’ c. the Ministry of Defence have a separate though related 
interest in the accommodation which an intrnent camp vould provide, as a means of oupplomonting, and to the extent of ono major unite worth, replacing, temporary and sub-standard accommodation.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2265')
	the Ministry of Defence have a separate though related 
interest in the accommodation which an intrnent camp vould provide, as a means of oupplomonting, and to the extent of ono major unite worth, replacing, temporary and sub-standard accommodation.

of the Government of Northern Ireland to protect the community against armed terrorists by this means.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4972')
	The Ad hoo Conference presumably questions the moral right, or indeed the duty, of the Government of Northern Ireland to protect the community against armed terrorists by this means.

The Act making this provision (as to the necessity of an Act see below) could be of 6 months duration renewable by Order in Council. The provision would apply to conduct involving complicity in any degree with terrorism generally; it	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7785')
	The most promising possibility is to create a system 
of special courts whose function would not be to convict accused persons of criminal offences, but to judge whether they were guilty of certain specified conduct and commit them to "preventive detention" if they were. The Act making this provision (as to the necessity of an Act see below) could be of 6 months duration renewable by Order in Council. The provision would apply to conduct involving complicity in any degree with terrorism generally; it

correct up to 7 February. arrested released without detention order released after detention order escaped from detentions 
released after consideration by Advisory Committee 
released from internment on recommendation of RUC 
The latest complete figures for those arrested in Northern They are 
2364 
1408 113 10 31 2 
1564 800 
held under Regulation 10 held under detention order interned 
42 
160 598 800 
31 January are as follows: cases reviewed 
Statistics of proceedings before the Advisory Committee as at 383 Internees refused to appear 
continued interment recommended release recommended 
refused to give undertaking not to indulge 
in violence or encourage others to do so and therfore still interned 
cases adjourned 
4 3 
291 345 35	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6840')
	Ireland under the Special Powers Act are as follows. 
correct up to 7 February. arrested released without detention order released after detention order escaped from detentions 
released after consideration by Advisory Committee 
released from internment on recommendation of RUC 
The latest complete figures for those arrested in Northern They are 
2364 
1408 113 10 31 2 
1564 800 
held under Regulation 10 held under detention order interned 
42 
160 598 800 
31 January are as follows: cases reviewed 
Statistics of proceedings before the Advisory Committee as at 383 Internees refused to appear 
continued interment recommended release recommended 
refused to give undertaking not to indulge 
in violence or encourage others to do so and therfore still interned 
cases adjourned 
4 3 
291 345 35

Even if the law is amended effectively, there ill be strong reasons on practical as well as political grounds for not arresting everyone who commits the offence of membership of an illegal organisations; presumably members of the Official IRA will be excluded. 
HQ Northern Ireland Lisburn 
9 December 1972 should be added to the categories of persons	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1815')
	Even if the law is amended effectively, there ill be strong reasons on practical as well as political grounds for not arresting everyone who commits the offence of membership of an illegal organisations; presumably members of the Official IRA will be excluded.

10. 
Either the improvement of the security situation or a political 
requirement to conciliate the Catholics may prompt some modification of the internment policy, starting perhaps with the release of some of the less harmful internees.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6704')
	Either the improvement of the security situation or a political 
requirement to conciliate the Catholics may prompt some modification of the internment policy, starting perhaps with the release of some of the less harmful internees.

in Wesztminster that a . ito at Long Koch was tho boot choice 
for Chia purpose; and that it w-as docirable for an alternative uco -or Ohe accommodation to to, found.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2262')
	and that it w-as docirable for an alternative uco -or Ohe accommodation to to, found.

8. The recent active involvement of the IRA provisionals in 
attacks on the security forces and on civilians has led both the Ministry of Defence and the Home Office to think it right to seek Ministerial authority to study the question of internment further.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4855')
	The recent active involvement of the IRA provisionals in 
attacks on the security forces and on civilians has led both the Ministry of Defence and the Home Office to think it right to seek Ministerial authority to study the question of internment further.

IT MAY BE THAT MINISTERS WILL WISH TO SEE SOME LIMIT PLACED ON THE NUMBER OF INTERNMENT ORDERS FOR POLITICALREASONS (INTELLIGENCE AND MILITARY REASONS ARGUE IN THE DIRECTION OF NO LIMIT) BUT UNLESS SUCH A LIMIT IS AS LOW AS 450 ON LY 150 MORE THAN ARE NOW HELD) THE PROBLEM OF EXTRA ACCO1400DAT ION REMAINS.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6195')
	IT MAY BE THAT MINISTERS WILL WISH TO SEE SOME LIMIT PLACED ON THE NUMBER OF INTERNMENT ORDERS FOR POLITICALREASONS (INTELLIGENCE AND MILITARY REASONS ARGUE IN THE DIRECTION OF NO LIMIT) BUT UNLESS SUCH A LIMIT IS AS LOW AS 450 ON LY 150 MORE THAN ARE NOW HELD) THE PROBLEM OF EXTRA ACCO1400DAT ION REMAINS.

CFIET ChGANISATICNS, VCULC PRCVCKE FRCM THEN; A’ EYTEEE AN’D CALLCUS CCU TER-FEACTICN.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6925')
	F CCUFE VE FsE THAT IVTEF.NMENT, ETRIKiNG AS IT CID AT THE PEAF:T CF THE TEf.CFIET ChGANISATICNS, VCULC PRCVCKE FRCM THEN; A’ EYTEEE AN’D CALLCUS CCU TER-FEACTICN

An indemnity which 
prevented those still detained from taking legal proceedings to challenge their detention would be a breach of Article 5 of the Convention and, unlike internment itself, could hardly be justified as a measure of derogation required by the exigencies of the emergency situation.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7700')
	An indemnity which 
prevented those still detained from taking legal proceedings to challenge their detention would be a breach of Article 5 of the Convention and, unlike internment itself, could hardly be justified as a measure of derogation required by the exigencies of the emergency situation.

I as sorry the reply has taken so long but you will be glad to know that in view of the difficulties you described, the ministry of Defence have agreed to finance the construction of the accomodation for the time being.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2236')
	in view of the difficulties you described, the ministry of Defence have agreed to finance the construction of the accomodation for the time being.

- iota ; and - are selective and vould no inolv the voleeSl axWrst an dotntie aof spcts a in th:o;east; but we ould nevrtheless have to face the probla of OW long it will be powriblo to old thse a"ain t whos detention Md re have been aie Wit out making inte -aent ordarr.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1868')
	- iota ; and - are selective and vould no inolv the voleeSl axWrst an dotntie aof spcts a in th:o;east; but we ould nevrtheless have to face the probla of OW long it will be powriblo to old thse a"ain t whos detention Md re have been aie Wit out making inte -aent ordarr.

the start of Operation Motorman or the introduction of internment.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8179')
	On this occasion however security considerations are 
not significant in the same way as they were for, e.g. the start of Operation Motorman or the introduction of internment.

It would have to be accepted that such a procedure 
would make fundamental inroads into the protection which we normally give in this country to an accused person.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4922')
	It would have to be accepted that such a procedure 
would make fundamental inroads into the protection which we normally give in this country to an accused person. It would deprive him of the right to face his accuser and to contest any evidence before the court which had not been put directly to him in the course of his examination. But

6. 
That is his judgment of the situation, and of 
course the decision is his, though he has reached it after consultation with us.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_199')
	That is his judgment of the situation, and of 
course the decision is his, though he has reached it after consultation with us.

One has only to look at the figures for the quantities of arms, ammunition and explosives which were found before the introduction of internment, and which have been found since then, to realise the effect it would have if the flow of information again dwindled to a trickle.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6633')
	One has only to look at the figures for the quantities of arms, ammunition and explosives which were found before the introduction of internment, and which have been found since then, to realise the effect it would have if the flow of information again dwindled to a trickle.

Such a message might 
No.	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9353')
	Such a message migh

3. A substantial proportion of the arrests made by the Army 
in future operations will be under Regulation 11. This means that unless there is some extension of the limited period previously thought to be available for questioning under Regulation 11 interrogation will be restricted to 24 hours.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1863')
	A substantial proportion of the arrests made by the Army 
in future operations will be under Regulation 11.

ACTIVTY - 
THE PCMPING, 1HE SHOOTING, THE INTIMICATICN 
PF.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6925')
	ACTIVTY - 
THE PCMPING, 1HE SHOOTING, THE INTIMICATICN

9. 
defeated can in any way assist towards a political solution.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6968')
	defeated can in any way assist towards a political solution. 
Nor is it easy to see how the ending of internment before the IRA are The opposition 
have no control over the IRA and therefore no means of bringing terrorism itself under control. 
And even if a total or partial ending of internment enabled 
political talks to start a fully armed terrorist organization in the background with its ranks re-filled would inevitably dominate the course of any negotiations.

campaign.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5589')
	But I have made no Internment Order without 
being satisfied on evidence placed before me that the person concerned was and still is an active member of the Official or Provisional Wing of the I.R.A. or has been closely implicated in the recent I.R.A. campaign.

I AM SENDING YOU THIS MESSAGE TO LET YOU KNOW THAT THE PRIME MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND WILL VERY SHORTLY BE ANNOUNCING THAT, IN THE LIGHT OF THE LATEST ASSESSMENT OF THE SECURITY SITUATION IN NORTHERN IRELAND AND ALL OTHER RELEVANT FACTORS, AND AFTER CONSULTATION WITH THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT, THE NORTHERN IRELAND GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED TO ACTIVATE ITS POWERS OF INTERNMENT.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_179')
	I AM SENDING YOU THIS MESSAGE TO LET YOU KNOW THAT THE PRIME MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND WILL VERY SHORTLY BE ANNOUNCING THAT, IN THE LIGHT OF THE LATEST ASSESSMENT OF THE SECURITY SITUATION IN NORTHERN IRELAND AND ALL OTHER RELEVANT FACTORS, AND AFTER CONSULTATION WITH THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT, THE NORTHERN IRELAND GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED TO ACTIVATE ITS POWERS OF INTERNMENT.

Furthermore, intimidation had made 
it more and more difficult to get witnesses to give evidence against members of the I.R.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5590')
	Furthermore, intimidation had made 
it more and more difficult to get witnesses to give evidence against members of the I.R.A. 
It was clearly intolerable that they should be able any 
longer by this means to place themselves effectively beyond the law.

He had already given evidence of his intention to end internment. But he	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7948')
	It would be wrng for him to give them any guarantees about the ending of internment. He could not give guarantees to anybody. He had already given evidence of his intention to end internment. But he

3. 
Every means has been tried to make terrorists amenable to 
the law.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_50')
	Every means has been tried to make terrorists amenable to 
the law. Nor have much methods been without success, because a substantial number of the most prominent leaders of the IRA are now serving ordinary prison sentences.

He gave as his mission: 
"In closest co-operation with the RUC, the Army in Northern Ireland is progressively to diminish the ability of extremist organisations and their followers to influence political events or to terrorise any section of the population."	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_160')
	"In closest co-operation with the RUC, the Army in Northern Ireland is progressively to diminish the ability of extremist organisations and their followers to influence political events or to terrorise any section of the population." 
CLF gave the three brigades the following tasks in order of priority: a. 
their campaign. b. 
To continue the attrition of the IRA’s will and capacity to continue

Imprisonment without trial was described as being "unjust" and 
"immoral". I am to observe that although article 5 of the Convention for the protection of Human Right and Fundamental Freedoms declares the principle that no one shall be deprived of his liberty unless convicted by a court of law,	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4972')
	Imprisonment without trial was described as being "unjust" and 
"immoral". I am to observe that although article 5 of the Convention for the protection of Human Right and Fundamental Freedoms declares the principle that no one shall be deprived of his liberty unless convicted by a court of law, or for certain other limited reasons, article 15 recognises that this principle may have to be abrogated "in time of war or other public emergency threatening the life of the nation".

The possibility of an independent inspection of the internment camp and the independent observation of the advisory committee system would also be pursued (although the International Red Cross might prove to be a more suitable body than Amnesty International for the latter purpose). The possibility of refuting allegations of vindictiveness in making arrests would be pursued.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5873')
	The possibility of refuting allegations of vindictiveness in making arrests would be pursued.

the likelihood that internees 
released as a political gesture would return to their previous activities and so repair the substantial damage which has been inflicted on both factions of the IRA since 9 August 1971. (2) If internees were released prematurely,	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6958')
	There is, therefore, the likelihood that internees 
released as a political gesture would return to their previous activities and so repair the substantial damage which has been inflicted on both factions of the IRA since 9 August 1971. (2) If internees were released prematurely, ie before the IRA were defeated, the prime targets for retaliatory action would undoubtedly be the members of the Special Branch of the RUC: these are for the most part known to those internees whom they have arrested or interrogated.

15. 
Immediate tactical interrogation following arrest is still 
continuing as before and is producing good results.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_6049')
	15. 
Immediate tactical interrogation following arrest is still 
continuing as before and is producing good results.

In case this should happen, 
it was all the more important that the Tribunals should be seen to be operating fairly and effectively.	('PREM_15_1015', 'IMG_8441')
	In case this should happen, 
it was all the more important that the Tribunals should be seen to be operating fairly and effectively.

It is rolovant that both Ur Chicheator-Clarke and Ur Faulknor Javo stated that.-	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2263')
	It is rolovant that both Ur Chicheator-Clarke and Ur Faulknor Javo stated that.-they would. 
onl .contemplate internment .if the Security Foroos advised in favour of it.

there may be no alternative to some kind of internment policy.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5707')
	Begin by trying to get agreement that no democratic government can 
afford to give way to violence and that, if violence escalates to a certain pitch, there may be no alternative to some kind of internment policy.

In response to recent demanded for internment the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland has said that if the security advisersthe G.O.C.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2298')
	In response to recent demanded for internment the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland has said that if the security advisersthe G.O.C. and the Chief Constable of the R.U.C. 
should be used he would not hesitate to act.

Anyone against whom there is thought to be evidence which might justify the preferring of criminal charges (subject to further questioning). 
Anyone known to be holding officer rank in the Provisional IRA even though there is no evidence to justify criminal proceedings.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_1973')
	Anyone known to be holding officer rank in the Provisional IRA even though there is no evidence to justify criminal proceedings.

You will be asked to give your personal 
assessment of Irish Government ’s reaction to following three possibilities: (1) Joint control by British and Northern Ireland Governments of internment policies and individual decisions, with veto tc each side.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7218')
	Joint control by British and Northern Ireland Governments of internment policies and individual decisions, with veto tc each side. 
Periodical referenda on Border. 
Phasing out of Special Powers Act and replacement by less objectionable legislation, making use of internment dependent on declaration of emergency.

It was necessary to walk a tight rope between getting the necessary intelligence and not alienating moderate Catholic opinion.	('PREM_15_1007', 'IMG_7485')
	It was necessary to walk a tight rope between getting the necessary intelligence and not alienating moderate Catholic opinion.

atner1 
theoyal Courts of Justies (U1ster) Chichester tr7eet 
" DLFAUT OTI 32n Dear Attorney 
It and when internment tn introduood it will be necessary to ot without delay under ReaulationA 10 11 and 12 of the Regulations sods under the Civil Anthorities (Speoinal1owro) Aot (il) 1922 (Roprint to 1969). 
In diocusions with the police atan doubts have arisen as to these Regulations.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2172')
	It and when internment tn introduood it will be necessary to ot without delay under ReaulationA 10 11 and 12 of the Regulations sods under the Civil Anthorities (Speoinal1owro) Aot (il) 1922 (Roprint to 1969).

Transfer of security powers to Westminster 
were continuing to recommend the release of those whom were now 
so short of arms that large numbers of internees could safely be released.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6711')
	continuing to recommend the release of those whom were now 
so short of arms that large numbers of internees could safely be released. 
they thought it right to release; about 30 had already been released. He did not think that the I

It could be that the I.R.A. would publicly announce	('PREM_15_1004', 'IMG_7109')
	It could be that the I.R.A. would publicly announce

I am a little hesitant about whether it is appropriate to finance it from Defence Votes but, given the importance of making a start on the camp as quickly as possible, I would not wish to spend further time on looking for other ways to fund it.	('PREM_15_477', 'IMG_5540')
	given the importance of making a start on the camp as quickly as possible, I would not wish to spend further time on looking for other ways to fund it.

If this was to be done however, the individuals concerned would have to be carefully chosen people who could distinguish between the sort of rough handling which was inevitable in a situation of this kind and deliberate and wanton brutality.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5878')
	If this was to be done however, the individuals concerned would have to be carefully chosen people who could distinguish between the sort of rough handling which was inevitable in a situation of this kind and deliberate and wanton brutality.

In addition, I am advised that if a warrant of arrest has been 
issued for an offence in Northern Ireland against an individual who is in this country, including the offence under the Special Powers Act of being a member of the I.R.A.,	('PREM_15_1016', 'IMG_8589')
	In addition, I am advised that if a warrant of arrest has been 
issued for an offence in Northern Ireland against an individual who is in this country, including the offence under the Special Powers Act of being a member of the I.R.A., then that warrant can be backed and executed by the police in Great Britain.

It is sadly true, however, that this belief, although mistaken, is actively fostered by others.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4973')
	Security policies will inevitably be resented in those sections of the community in which are found those deemed to be working against the security of the whole community. There may well result a real belief on the part of some that the working of such policies is an attack on the rights of a minority. It is sadly true, however, that this belief, although mistaken, is actively fostered by others.

The Lord Chancellor tells me that it would be possible to devise a procedure for such circumstances which could nevertheless be regarded as judicial.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4922')
	he Lord Chancellor tells me that it would be possible to devise a procedure for such circumstances which could nevertheless be regarded as judicial. The procedure would have to be very different from court procedure as known in this country. It would be inquisitorial; the court would be able to ask the accused questions and draw inferences from refusal to answer; material provided on deposition could also be put to the accused. We might also provide that hearsay evidence was to be admissible (and this would undoubtedly increase the number of cases in which we might look for a conviction). The court would need to be given power to impose a sentence instead of an open-ended internment order.

We feel sure that you do not intend us to cover police 
interrogation under ordinary conditions but only interrogation under emergency conditions short of war such as prevail in Northern Ireland, e.g.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5050')
	We feel sure that you do not intend us to cover police 
interrogation under ordinary conditions but only interrogation under emergency conditions short of war such as prevail in Northern Ireland, e.g. where persons can be lawfully detained without trial.

(vi) A gradual phasing-out of internment (which would probably stop short of the hard core internees until it was reasonably clear that the IRA campaign was at an end), possibly coupled with the institution of some form of quasi-judicial procedure in special courts.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6893')
	A gradual phasing-out of internment (which would probably stop short of the hard core internees until it was reasonably clear that the IRA campaign was at an end), possibly coupled with the institution of some form of quasi-judicial procedure in special courts.

The Northern Ireland Government will, of course, 
have views about all this and we must expect them to be much influenced by the attitude of the RUC Special Branch which we know to be strongly opposed to a release rate which is more than marginally faster than is now being achieved.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6779')
	The Northern Ireland Government will, of course, 
have views about all this and we must expect them to be much influenced by the attitude of the RUC Special Branch which we know to be strongly opposed to a release rate which is more than marginally faster than is now being achieved.

2. A policy once started,. should not b givori up: eg: rtial Law should have bon declared earlier and have takoz ini Jloazefro 
detention of IRA hunger strikers was a grave error.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2190')
	A policy once started,. should not b givori up: eg: rtial Law should have bon declared earlier and have takoz ini Jloazefro 
detention of IRA hunger strikers was a grave error

5. ANY ATTEMPT TO LINK A PROGRAMME OF RELEASES WITH AN UNDERTAKING NOT TO MAKE FURTHER ARRESTS WOULD BE REGARDED BY THE IRA AS A STILL GREATER SUCCESS AND THEY MUST BE EXPECTED TO TAKE THE OPPORTUNITY TO RECOUP THEIR LOSSES AND TO EQUIP THEMSELVES TO INTENSIFY OPERATIONS THROUGHOUT THE PROVINCE AT A DATE OF THEIR OWN CHOOSING.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6772')
	ANY ATTEMPT TO LINK A PROGRAMME OF RELEASES WITH AN UNDERTAKING NOT TO MAKE FURTHER ARRESTS WOULD BE REGARDED BY THE IRA AS A STILL GREATER SUCCESS AND THEY MUST BE EXPECTED TO TAKE THE OPPORTUNITY TO RECOUP THEIR LOSSES AND TO EQUIP THEMSELVES TO INTENSIFY OPERATIONS THROUGHOUT THE PROVINCE AT A DATE OF THEIR OWN CHOOSING.

Michael McNair Wilson 
IRA to London.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_136')
	Michael McNair Wilson 
IRA to London. do so. 
If we do not protect 
It was insulting toour Servicemen to bring the Ulster loyalists 
will, Are we the Government of Northern Ireland or not? We have 
frittered our chances away and the Loyalists have no respect left for Westminster. We must restore law and order now. 
We must not flinch 
from this again.

hero he will be intorrogntod, and tit is proposed to detain hi further a detention order will be applied for, 
for the purpose of intorrogation.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2172')
	for the purpose of intorrogation

2. HE WILL AT THE SAME TIME ANNOUNCE THAT ALL MARCHES AND PARADES ARE BANNED UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_175')
	HE WILL AT THE SAME TIME ANNOUNCE THAT ALL MARCHES AND PARADES ARE BANNED UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.

THE PROPOSED TRIBUNAL AND COMMISSION 5. 
Information about the tribunal should emphasise the steps that will be 
taken to separate the decision to detain a person from the executive.	('DEFE_13_1358', 'IMG_9711')
	Information about the tribunal should emphasise the steps that will be 
taken to separate the decision to detain a person from the executive.

The dividing line between Official and Provisional IRA members was not in fact as tidy as the SDLP implied.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7952')
	The dividing line between Official and Provisional IRA members was not in fact as tidy as the SDLP implied.

(b) the commissioner must enquire into any case referred to him to see whether the person has been concerned in terrorism,	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9321')
	the commissioner must enquire into any case referred to him to see whether the person has been concerned in terrorism, and, if so, whether his detention is necessary for the protection of the public

6. Under conditions of emergency, or near emergency, there is likely 
to be internal security legislation controlling the treatment of detainees and arrested persons.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_2141')
	Under conditions of emergency, or near emergency, there is likely 
to be internal security legislation controlling the treatment of detainees and arrested persons.

In particular, internment had increased the amount of available information about the IRA and the Army’s main task was now to follow up this intelligence so that terrorists were given no respite.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5689')
	In particular, internment had increased the amount of available information about the IRA and the Army’s main task was now to follow up this intelligence so that terrorists were given no respite.

There must be a full medical check by a doctor of every arrested person when he enters the centre.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2179')
	Adminstrative arrangements for running the centre including 
the accommodation, medical care and messing of all persons in the centre. There must be a full medical check by a doctor of every arrested person when he enters the centre.

These things are, and will continue to be, the aims of our policy.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_50')
	If Northern Ireland is to survive and prosper, two things 
are essential. We must sustain a continuing programme of economic and social development, and we must find the means to create a more united society here 
- one in which all men of good will, hoever divergent their legitimate political views, 
may participate to the full. These things are, and will continue to be, the aims of our policy.

The Commissioners courts reviewed 18 cases and confirmed 16 for detention.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_31')
	During the week a battalion adjutant, two company commanders, a company quartermaster, and two company explosives officers of the Provisional IRA were arrested. The Commissioners courts reviewed 18 cases and confirmed 16 for detention.

Of 
the Regulations scheduled to the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act (Northern Ireland) 1922, Regulation 10 provides that ’Any officer of The Royal Ulster Constabulary, for the preservation of the peace and maintenance of order, may authorise the arrest without warrant and detention for a period of not more then 48 hours of any person for the purpose of interrogation’.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5013')
	In Northern Ireland in normal times the powers of the police and prison officers in relation to those in custody are substantially the same except for an immaterial difference in their Judges’ Rules. 
Of 
the Regulations scheduled to the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act (Northern Ireland) 1922, Regulation 10 provides that ’Any officer of The Royal Ulster Constabulary, for the preservation of the peace and maintenance of order, may authorise the arrest without warrant and detention for a period of not more then 48 hours of any person for the purpose of interrogation’.

These things are, and will continue to be, the aims of our policy.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2162')
	If Northern Ireland is to survive and prosper, two things 
are essential. We must sustain a continuing programme of economic and soial development, and we must find the means to create a more united society here 
- one in which all men of 
good will, however divergent their legitimato political views may participate to the full. These things are, and will continue to be, the aims of our policy.

889 had been arrested by midday on 6 November, 
1971. In each case very careful 
consideration was given to the question whether an internment order was necessary.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5162')
	In each case very careful 
consideration was given to the question whether an internment order was necessary.

The first is the fact, already noted, that the IRA presence has been removed from certain areas and that this is continuing; though it is unfortunately true that those who have most to fear from the IRA are least articulate in pointing to the comparative freedom from intimidation which they are beginning to enjoy.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6957')
	The first is the fact, already noted, that the IRA presence has been removed from certain areas and that this is continuing; though it is unfortunately true that those who have most to fear from the IRA are least articulate in pointing to the comparative freedom from intimidation which they are beginning to enjoy.

WHITFIELD: Wasn’t the success of the operation in the 
fifties due to the co-operation of Devalera and the Irish Government.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5674')
	Wasn’t the success of the operation in the 
fifties due to the co-operation of Devalera and the Irish Government. In the south, they. interned a hundred extremists as well and patrolled their side of the border. Now there is no sign of co-operation from Jack Lynch’s government at the moment.

Like 
Major Chichester-Clark, Mr. Faulkner has stated that he would only contemplate internment if the Security Forces advised in favour of it.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2255')
	r. Faulkner has stated that he would only contemplate internment if the Security Forces advised in favour of it.

Until he is able to deal ith the bomb explosions and the destruction of property and the general terrorism it is impossible for him to go further than he has gone already.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_136')
	Until he is able to deal ith the bomb explosions and the destruction of property and the general terrorism it is impossible for him to go further than he has gone already.

(d) a person appearing before a commissioner is given in advance a statement of the terrorist activities he is alleged to have engaged in;	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9321')
	(d) a person appearing before a commissioner is given in advance a statement of the terrorist activities he is alleged to have engaged in; 
(e) such a person may give evidence and be legally represented.

shooting to prevent the escape of a person whom soldiers are justified in attempting to arrest). The Attorney General might also be asked when he proposes to introduce the Order in Council permitting sittings of the Belfast Crown Court during August (paragraph 12). 
(c) 
Special Courts Do Ministers endorse the Attorney General’s clear conclusion in paragraph 18 that there is no advantage in courts with a special composition (without jurors) exercising the ordinary criminal law?	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7696')
	The Secretaries of State for Northern Ireland and for Defence might be asked whether they are content with the Attorney General’s proposals in paragraphs 10 and 11 that he should normally authorise prosecutions in cases involving physical assault or ill-treatment of persons in custody by members of the security forces but that he would regard as special cases reasonable actions to preserve law and order (for example, in particular cases, shooting to prevent the escape of a person whom soldiers are justified in attempting to arrest). The Attorney General might also be asked when he proposes to introduce the Order in Council permitting sittings of the Belfast Crown Court during August (paragraph 12). 
(c) 
Special Courts Do Ministers endorse the Attorney General’s clear conclusion in paragraph 18 that there is no advantage in courts with a special composition (without jurors) exercising the ordinary criminal law? Do they also endorse his implied preference (paragraph 21) for not instituting tribunals with special procedures going beyond the present criminal law and rules of evidence? The Attorney General presumably judges that, although such tribunals might be a more "judicial" alternative to the Secretary of State’s powers under the Special Powers Acts, their establishment would be seen as a further special measure indicating that the normal judicial structure of the Northern Ireland State was inadequate.

desirable that there should be no reference on the order to grounds not connected with terrorism, such as allegations that the person concerned had stirred up anti-Northern Ireland Government feeling.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5604')
	desirable that there should be no reference on the order to grounds not connected with terrorism, such as allegations that the person concerned had stirred up anti-Northern Ireland Government feeling.

They have been further hampered by selective arrests and subsequent detention of senior officers the most important of which was Cornelius McHugh, the Operations Officer of the 1st Battalion in Belfast.	('DEFE_13_1358', 'IMG_9599')
	IRA Activity. Reports continue to indicate that Provisional morale is low 
and that they have found it increasingly difficult to operate due to SF domination. They have been further hampered by selective arrests and subsequent detention of senior officers the most important of which was Cornelius McHugh, the Operations Officer of the 1st Battalion in Belfast.

of persons on the wanted list were now being detained and it was not possible to foresee how soon the time would come when Ministers had to consider whether they could authorise further interrogation in depth.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5080')
	of persons on the wanted list were now being detained and it was not possible to foresee how soon the time would come when Ministers had to consider whether they could authorise further interrogation in depth. 
The Prime Minister said that the need was not Large numbers

was ill-treatment deliberate.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5127')
	As for the handful of cases where the Compton Committee thought 
that people suffered ill-treatment at the time of arrest or at a Regional Holding Centre - for example, the case of Mr. Cummings who was hooded and bound as a military precaution -, I can only say that it speaks volumes for the discipline and common sense of the many soldiers who were engaged in this large-scale and dangerous operation in which a total of 342 arrests were made that there were so very few cases of this kind and that when they did occur, on no occasion, in the Committee’s view, was ill-treatment deliberate.

The return to normal conditions 
will mean not only the release of internees but also the restoration to the community at large of the right to a quiet and peaceful life which the campaign of the terrorists is denying them.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5592')
	I hope, therefore, that those who, 
for reasons which I respect, are opposed to internment whatever the circumstances will also use their influence to bring to an end the conditions which have made internment necessary. 
The return to normal conditions 
will mean not only the release of internees but also the restoration to the community at large of the right to a quiet and peaceful life which the campaign of the terrorists is denying them.

(UNATTRIBUTABLE) 
G. IRA VIOLENCE HAS MADE RECOURSE TO INTERNMENT NECESSARY ON EARLIER OCCASIONS.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_166')
	IRA VIOLENCE HAS MADE RECOURSE TO INTERNMENT NECESSARY ON EARLIER OCCASIONS. THE NORTHERN. IRELAND GOVERNMENT INTRODUCED INTERNMENT DURING THE LAST WAR AND IN 1957-61.

e. Other terrorists who are known, on the strength of reliable 
intelligence, to be an exceptionally serious threat to security, and for whom, in the absence of evidence which could form the basis of a criminal charge, 
Interim Custody Order.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1808')
	Other terrorists who are known, on the strength of reliable 
intelligence, to be an exceptionally serious threat to security, and for whom, in the absence of evidence which could form the basis of a criminal charge, 
Interim Custody Order.

The major charges against Wyman and Crinnion were dismissed on 13 February when the prosecution declined to produce the documents involved. On 27 February Wyman was convicted on the summary charge of attempting to obtain official information from Crinnion and Crinnion 
There have been 18 appeals to the Tribunal 9 of which have been heard, The Commissioners have to date released a total of 99 the Tribunal 3 end 
the Secretary of State 3. Those held in detention under Special Powers legislation now total 343 and are made up of:	('PREM_15_1690', 'IMG_8716')
	The Commissioners have to date released a total of 99 the Tribunal 3 end 
the Secretary of State 3.

Since the Government would need full Protestant support for any new initiatives on political reconciliation which they might be able to undertake, it would be foolish to alienate Protestant support by an indiscriminate ban on marches.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_212')
	Moreover, it was not a 
question of regarding a ban on marches as some kind of political offset against internment. The Protestants in Northern Ireland would regard internment as no more than a merited punishment for the violence of the IRA and their Roman Catholic supporters; they would not see it at all as something which required a corresponding gesture on the part of themselves. Since the Government would need full Protestant support for any new initiatives on political reconciliation which they might be able to undertake, it would be foolish to alienate Protestant support by an indiscriminate ban on marches.

It is not the Government’s intention that anyone should be kept in a day longer than is necessary.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5592')
	It is not the Government’s intention that anyone should be kept in a day longer than is necessary.

It will be possible to charge some with criminal offences under the ordinary law;	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7785')
	It will be possible to charge some with criminal offences under the ordinary law; but others and perhaps the most important of them are beyond the reach of the criminal law partly because witnesses cannot be expected to come forward to give oral evidence in the ordinary way, and partly because the evidence available to connect accused persons with specific offences as opposed to general complicity in terrorism is sometimes tenuous,particularly in the case of the most important provisional IRA leaders.

5. 
When Mr. Faulkner came to London last week, he told 
us that he had come to the conclusion that internment was now the right and indeed inevitable course.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2195')
	When Mr. Faulkner came to London last week, he told 
us that he had come to the conclusion that internment was now the right and indeed inevitable course.

wuld be desirable to ake it clear to British public Sta this was not now a matter of inter-c 
tsich B’itish soldiers were being killed in Belfast. Ms Mer signs Of the development of this mood Early action to It 
intr-omunilty	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4848')
	Early action to

As to the trial of those accused of criminal offences, he agreed that speedy justice was important.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6175')
	As to the trial of those accused of criminal offences, he agreed that speedy justice was important. Delays arose not so much over offences tried summarily before the magistrates as over cases returned for trial by jury. He thought it would be advantageous if the establishment of special commissions of assize could be considered to deal speedily with offences involving security.

2. 
Specifically rejected are:(a) any place in Government for representatives of the minority community as of right; 
(b) the transfer of "law and order" powers to Westminster; (c) any change, while the violence continues, in the policy of internment; 
(d) the transfer to the Republic of any part of Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_1004', 'IMG_7053')
	Specifically rejected are:(a) any place in Government for representatives of the minority community as of right; 
(b) the transfer of "law and order" powers to Westminster; (c) any change, while the violence continues, in the policy of internment; 
(d) the transfer to the Republic of any part of Northern Ireland.

22 February 1972 The Prime inister has asked that the Defence 
Secretary should look at the attached telegrams nos.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6743')
	The Prime inister has asked that the Defence 
Secretary should look at the attached telegrams nos. 18 and 19 of 17 February from Belfast to the Home Office about a paper put forward jointly 
and the R.U.C. 
assessing the security implications of the release of internees

and it is therefore essential to interrogate suspects who are believed to have essential information.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5164')
	In the present circumstances of Northern Ireland, as described in 
paragraphs 3-5 of this note, it is imperative to obtain all available intelligence in order to save the lives of civilians and members of the security forces; and it is therefore essential to interrogate suspects who are believed to have essential information.

1. The general rules governing the custody of detainees and the 
processes of interrogation have been reviewed from time to time by the Government Departments and agencies concerned in the light of experience gained in the various internal security operations in which HMG have been involved since the last war.	('DEFE_13_917', 'IMG_2327')
	The general rules governing the custody of detainees and the 
processes of interrogation have been reviewed from time to time by the Government Departments and agencies concerned in the light of experience gained in the various internal security operations in which HMG have been involved since the last war.

The Northern Ireland Government 
is fully committed to and has taken effective steps to implement the principle of securing for the minority here the fullest possible opportunity to participate in the running of affairs within the framework of democratic government.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5588')
	The Northern Ireland Government 
is fully committed to and has taken effective steps to implement the principle of securing for the minority here the fullest possible opportunity to participate in the running of affairs within the framework of democratic government.

He appreciated the arguments advanced for the ending of internment.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7948')
	He appreciated the arguments advanced for the ending of internment. His problem was primarily one of tiing. The SDLP wanted it to end immediately, but they should consider also what his position would be if he appeared "to dance to their tune",

This procedure is very different from internment.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8053')
	This procedure is very different from internment.

I should add the warning that so long as the present situation 
prevails it will be necessary for the protection of decent people that the present policy be pursued.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5592')
	I should add the warning that so long as the present situation 
prevails it will be necessary for the protection of decent people that the present policy be pursued.

where persons can be lawfully detained without trial.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5050')
	We feel sure that you do not intend us to cover police 
interrogation under ordinary conditions but only interrogation under emergency conditions short of war such as prevail in Northern Ireland, e.g. where persons can be lawfully detained without trial.

What one can however do is to keep the policy of internment under review, so that those internees who are considered no longer to be a threat to security are released without delay, and so that - whenever witnesses are brave enough to come forward 
- the internee in question can be prosecuted.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6634')
	What one can however do is to keep the policy of internment under review, so that those internees who are considered no longer to be a threat to security are released without delay, and so that - whenever witnesses are brave enough to come forward 
- the internee in question can be prosecuted.

He is a "hardliner" in regard to Catholic education, and an article in the Sunday Press on December 12 1971 showed he was not in favour of changes in the Eire constitution in order to meet Protestant objections.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1926')
	Fr Faul’s image is that of an ordinary country cleric (with perhaps liberal tendencies) helping the oppressed. In face he is extremely shrewd, and is by no means a liberal. He is a "hardliner" in regard to Catholic education, and an article in the Sunday Press on December 12 1971 showed he was not in favour of changes in the Eire constitution in order to meet Protestant objections.

3. It is not the wish of the Secretary of State that the 
number of detention orders should be increased to any marked extent. 
Northern Ireland Office 9 August 1972	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7929')
	It is not the wish of the Secretary of State that the 
number of detention orders should be increased to any marked extent.

(This is put separately, and last, partly because it is in a sense the most difficult issue and partly because it bridges A and B, which are therefore beat discussed first). 
A . Further Reforms in Northern Ireland (1) Agree on the objective 
i.e.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5705')
	The problem of security and public order. 
C. Internment. (This is put separately, and last, partly because it is in a sense the most difficult issue and partly because it bridges A and B, which are therefore beat discussed first).

3. 
The course we have been asked to consider is one of strong but 
impartial action, aimed at the removal of arms and explosives by means of a massive reinforcement of troops, and accompanied by searches, interrogation, and probably internment.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_6')
	The course we have been asked to consider is one of strong but 
impartial action, aimed at the removal of arms and explosives by means of a massive reinforcement of troops, and accompanied by searches, interrogation, and probably internment.

The question of indemnity only 
arises when even the wide powers so conferred are exceeded, eg by the use of excessive force or failure to comply with legal requirements as to arrest.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7698')
	The question of indemnity only 
arises when even the wide powers so conferred are exceeded, eg by the use of excessive force or failure to comply with legal requirements as to arrest.

As for the handful of cases where the Compton Committee thought 
that people suffered ill-treatment at the time of arrest or at a Regional Holding Centre - for example,	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5127')
	As for the handful of cases where the Compton Committee thought 
that people suffered ill-treatment at the time of arrest or at a Regional Holding Centre - for example, the case of Mr. Cummings who was hooded and bound as a military precaution -, I can only say that it speaks volumes for the discipline and common sense of the many soldiers who were engaged in this large-scale and dangerous operation in which a total of 342 arrests were made that there were so very few cases of this kind and that when they did occur, on no occasion, in the Committee’s view, was ill-treatment deliberate.

The Secretary of State explained the position regarding detainees and pointed out that it was only the Attorney-General who could order their release.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7899')
	As an earnest of his good intentions, the Secretary of State said that he had that day signed orders releasing 18 more internees including the last of the official IRA. This, with his previous releases, made a total of 65 persons released in a week. The Secretary of State explained the position regarding detainees and pointed out that it was only the Attorney-General who could order their release.

The maintenance of order in a polling station is primarily the 
responsibility of the presiding officer, supported by the RUC.	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1723')
	nan

(UNATTRIBUTABLE) 
F. THE IRA’S TWO FACTIONS, BRADYITES AND GOULDINGITES, BOTH PROFESS A REVOLUTIONARY CREED, AND THE LATTER’S PROGRAMME IS AVOWEDLY MARXIST.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_166')
	THE IRA’S TWO FACTIONS, BRADYITES AND GOULDINGITES, BOTH PROFESS A REVOLUTIONARY CREED, AND THE LATTER’S PROGRAMME IS AVOWEDLY MARXIST. ALTHOUGH UNTIL RECENTLY THE BRADYITES HAVE TENDED TO BE THE MORE VIOLENT, THE GOULDINGITES HAVE IN RECENT WEEKS BEEN ACTIVE IN CAUSING VIOLENCE IN THE NORTH AND ALSO ATTACKS ON FOREIGN PROPERTY IN THE IRISH REPUBLIC ITSELF.

IT APPEARED TO BE THE THOUGHT OF SOME PRESENT AT THE MEETING THAT SUCH A PAPER WOULD ALSO MAKE CLEAR THAT ONLY IRA MEMBERS WERE INTERNED.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6773')
	IT APPEARED TO BE THE THOUGHT OF SOME PRESENT AT THE MEETING THAT SUCH A PAPER WOULD ALSO MAKE CLEAR THAT ONLY IRA MEMBERS WERE INTERNED.

But no need seems to arise at present Unless we are confronted with a 
spate of private prosecutions or civil actions giving rise to security or other possible problems, it would be best to consider whether an Indemnity Act is appropriate when order has been restored, and the work of reconstruction and reconciliation has been started; that would be the most suitable time for the enactment of any Indemnity Act.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7701')
	But no need seems to arise at present Unless we are confronted with a 
spate of private prosecutions or civil actions giving rise to security or other possible problems, it would be best to consider whether an Indemnity Act is appropriate when order has been restored, and the work of reconstruction and reconciliation has been started; that would be the most suitable time for the enactment of any Indemnity Act. 
In that 
situation there is a more persuasive case for a once for all enactment which will cover appropriate cases over the whole period of the emergency.

even though there is no evidence to justify criminal proceedings;	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7929')
	anyone known to be in the most senior ranks of the Provisional IRA, even though there is no evidence to justify criminal proceedings;

Security Situation 2. 
Mr. Whitelaw said that the security authorities in 
Northern Ireland, and in particular the Special Branch, were concerned about the effects of the new low profile security posture, and about the diminution of intelligence which was resulting from the reduction in the number of arrests.	('PREM_15_1007', 'IMG_7485')
	Mr. Whitelaw said that the security authorities in 
Northern Ireland, and in particular the Special Branch, were concerned about the effects of the new low profile security posture, and about the diminution of intelligence which was resulting from the reduction in the number of arrests.

operation, which was one of considerable difficulty and danger, was accomplished in a creditable manner.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5121')
	peration, which was one of considerable difficulty and danger, was accomplished in a creditable manner.

But preventive detention is quite far removed from the present concept of internment.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7786')
	But preventive detention is quite far removed from the present concept of internment.

It would also be essential that the policy should be seen to be impartial in its application; and it would presumably be desirable for this purpose that those interned should include a certain number of Protestants.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_211')
	It would also be essential that the policy should be seen to be impartial in its application; and it would presumably be desirable for this purpose that those interned should include a certain number of Protestants.

mounted a campaign of violence in the UK we should 
have to think again - although we might then want to act on the lines of the 1939 Prevention of Violence Act (but perhaps not limited to Irish affairs). This would raise the ghastly problem that it might become essential to reintroduce a system of control at the ports between all Irish traffic and Great Britain.	('PREM_15_1016', 'IMG_8589')
	If the I.R.A. mounted a campaign of violence in the UK we should 
have to think again - although we might then want to act on the lines of the 1939 Prevention of Violence Act (but perhaps not limited to Irish affairs).

At the end of the day, it seems to me, the only solution is for us to decide gradually to let out the internees. They have already been broken down into categories and the least dangerous of them comprise about one-quarter of their number, that is about 150. If we are to get full political advantage from reversing the present	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4924')
	If we are to get full political advantage from reversing the present

SAYS AN INTERVIEW IN THE ’WORLD THIS WEEKEND’ ON 
ALLEGATIONS OF ILL TREATMENT OF PERSONS DETAINED UNDER THE SPECIAL POWERS ACT I INADVERTENTLY GAVE THE IMPRESSION BY A SLIP OF THE TONGUE THAT THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE HEADED BY JUDGE BROWN WAS IN SOME WAY CONCERNED WITH SUCH ALLEGATIONS.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5237')
	IN A STATEMENT "IN 
THE PRIME MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND, MR FAULKNER. SAYS AN INTERVIEW IN THE ’WORLD THIS WEEKEND’ ON 
ALLEGATIONS OF ILL TREATMENT OF PERSONS DETAINED UNDER THE SPECIAL POWERS ACT I INADVERTENTLY GAVE THE IMPRESSION BY A SLIP OF THE TONGUE THAT THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE HEADED BY JUDGE BROWN WAS IN SOME WAY CONCERNED WITH SUCH ALLEGATIONS.

2. Any member of Her Majesty’s Forces on duty may also, where it is 
necessary for the purpose of effecting an arrest in respect of any crime or any offence under the Regulations made under the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act Northern Ireland, 1922, exercise, by virtue of that Act, the like powers as may be exercised by a police constable in effecting arrest in a case where an arrestable offence has been committed.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2183')
	Any member of Her Majesty’s Forces on duty may also, where it is 
necessary for the purpose of effecting an arrest in respect of any crime or any offence under the Regulations made under the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act Northern Ireland, 1922, exercise, by virtue of that Act, the like powers as may be exercised by a police constable in effecting arrest in a case where an arrestable offence has been committed. 
Under 
Section 2 (4) of the Act, a person shall be deemed to be guilty of an offence against the Regulations if he does any act of such nature as to be calculated to be prejudicial to the preservation of the peace or maintenance of order in Northern Ireland and not specifically provided for in the Regulations.

[Note: 
made precisely the same point at the Secretary of State’s meeting with General Ford on 1 May./	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1932')
	Note: 
made precisely the same point at the Secretary of State’s meeting with General Ford on 1 May./

Proposal (ii) admittedly reverses the normal onus of proof - i. e. it is incumbent on the defendant to establish his innocence instead of on the prosecution to establish his guilt.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8108')
	Proposal (ii) admittedly reverses the normal onus of proof - i. e. it is incumbent on the defendant to establish his innocence instead of on the prosecution to establish his guilt. But this seems inherent in the nature of the case.

His Honour 
Judge Brown has agreed to act as Chairman of this Committee.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5591')
	The Special Powers Regulations provide for the setting up of an 
Advisory Committee to consider representations from internees. His Honour 
Judge Brown has agreed to act as Chairman of this Committee.

detail as possible would be made available to the Attorney General about the participation of the army in the various operations.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6983')
	detail as possible would be made available to the Attorney General about the participation of the army in the various operations.

The modern practice is to take wide powers (as in the N I 
Special Powers Acts and Regulations) to enable the executive to detain and take other steps to restore order.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7698')
	The modern practice is to take wide powers (as in the N I 
Special Powers Acts and Regulations) to enable the executive to detain and take other steps to restore order.

The Home Secretary has been talking to Mr. Faulkner Mr. Faulkner seems now to be firmly 
of the opinion that internment is desirable.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_217')
	Mr. Faulkner seems now to be firmly 
of the opinion that internment is desirable.

WALL-STANDING MAY BE USED FOR A SHORT TIME WHEN PEOPLE ARE BEING SEARCHED TO ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT ARMED HOODING OR BLANKETING MAY BE USED TO PROTECT A MAN IN CUSTODY FROM BEING RECOGNISED IF HE IS WILLING TO BE CONCEALED IN THIS WAY. AS RECOMMENDED IN PARAGRAPH 36 OF THE MAJORITY REPORT, GUIDELINES HAVE BEEN ISSUED TO SERVICE PERSONNEL IN RESPECT OF THE USE OF THESE TECHNIQUES IN CIRCUMSTANCES OF THIS 
IT IS ONLY THE PARTICULAR TECHNIQUES EMPLOYED AS AN AID	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_2103')
	(2) USE OF TECHNIQUES IN OTHER CIRCUMSTANCES. SOME OF THE TECHNIQUES DISCUSSED IN THE PARKER REPORT MAY CONTINUE TO BE USED FOR SHORT PERIODS FOR PURPOSES OTHER THAN THOSE OF INTERROGATION WITH WHICH THE REPORT WAS CONCERNED. WALL-STANDING MAY BE USED FOR A SHORT TIME WHEN PEOPLE ARE BEING SEARCHED TO ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT ARMED HOODING OR BLANKETING MAY BE USED TO PROTECT A MAN IN CUSTODY FROM BEING RECOGNISED IF HE IS WILLING TO BE CONCEALED IN THIS WAY. AS RECOMMENDED IN PARAGRAPH 36 OF THE MAJORITY REPORT, GUIDELINES HAVE BEEN ISSUED TO SERVICE PERSONNEL IN RESPECT OF THE USE OF THESE TECHNIQUES IN CIRCUMSTANCES OF THIS

Ireland under th Special Powers Act are as follows.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6913')
	Ireland under th Special Powers Act are as follows. They are correct u to 2 March. 
arrested 
released without detention order released after detention order escaped from detention 
released after consideration by 
Advisory Commiittee others released from internment 
escaped from internment 1.568 148 10 44 4 1 
1,775 869 
held under Pegulation 10 held under detention order interned 
55 129 
685 869 
2,644 The latest complete figures for those arrested in Northern

This legislation could be introduced now; but it would not take effect until the current emergency is over.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7226')
	The Special Powers Act will be replaced by fresh legislation enacted at Stormont providing that in future emergency measures, including internment, may not be instituted except after the proclamation of an Emergency which will require the approval of the United Kingdom Secretary of State. This legislation could be introduced now; but it would not take effect until the current emergency is over.

72 detained since the introduction of the Commission and held under interim custody orders until their cases are heard by the Commissioners.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_159')
	By 29 December the Commissioners had reviewed the cases of 167 men who had 
been interned and ordered the release of 63. The following remain interned/ detained as at 31 December 1972: 
10 interned under the previous powers whose cases have not yet 
been reviewed by the Commissioners. b. 
teen reviewed by the Commissioners. c. 
d. 106 detained under the previous powers whose cases have not yet 104 who were previously interned and whose cases have been 
reviewed by the Commissioners who have ordered that they should be detained. 
72 detained since the introduction of the Commission and held under interim custody orders until their cases are heard by the Commissioners.

I hope therefore that 
thee will be kept to the minimum compatible with the needs of the security situation.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1856')
	I hope therefore that 
thee will be kept to the minimum compatible with the needs of the security situation.

Major Chichester-Clark said that there were three 
possible sets of circumstances in which the Northern Ireland Government might be faced with the inevitability of a decision to introduce internment:(i) if the Government of the Republic started to intern; 
(ii) if the IRA proceeded to a campaign of political assassination; 
(iii) if it proved impossible otherwise to break the "wall of silence". 
He himself was against introducing internment, and so were the police.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4846')
	Major Chichester-Clark said that there were three 
possible sets of circumstances in which the Northern Ireland Government might be faced with the inevitability of a decision to introduce internment:(i) if the Government of the Republic started to intern; 
(ii) if the IRA proceeded to a campaign of political assassination; 
(iii) if it proved impossible otherwise to break the "wall of silence".

The Government have taken this decision after consultation with their military advisors.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7239')
	As soon as responsibility has been transferred an immediate 
review will be put in hand by this Government of all internment orders with a view to revoking as many of them as possible consistent with public safety. The Government have taken this decision after consultation with their military advisors.

I HAVE HOWEVER SENT A MESSAGE TO LYNCH, ASKING HIM TO REACT WITH UNDERSTANDING, EVEN IF WITH REGRET, AND EMPHASISING THAT WE HOPE THAT THESE MEASURES CAN BE STRICTLY TEMPORARY, AND WILL NOT PREJUDICE CONTINUING PROGRESS IN THE TASK OF MAKING PROGRESS WITH BUILDING MORE HARMONIOUS INTERCOMMUNITY RELATIONS IN NORTHERN IRELAND.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_181')
	I HAVE HOWEVER SENT A MESSAGE TO LYNCH, ASKING HIM TO REACT WITH UNDERSTANDING, EVEN IF WITH REGRET, AND EMPHASISING THAT WE HOPE THAT THESE MEASURES CAN BE STRICTLY TEMPORARY, AND WILL NOT PREJUDICE CONTINUING PROGRESS IN THE TASK OF MAKING PROGRESS WITH BUILDING MORE HARMONIOUS INTERCOMMUNITY RELATIONS IN NORTHERN IRELAND.

If the measures which HMG have taken lead, as is hoped 
they will, to a reduction in terrorist activity, it will be possible to consider further releases; but this must of course depend on a clearly established improvement in the security situation.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7253')
	If the measures which HMG have taken lead, as is hoped 
they will, to a reduction in terrorist activity, it will be possible to consider further releases; but this must of course depend on a clearly established improvement in the security situation.

You are glad that the responsible public opinion - especially in the press - have accepted this.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_153')
	H.M.G. deplores the necessity for powers of internment. You are glad that the responsible public opinion - especially in the press - have accepted this.

Preventive Detention for Terrorist Conduct The capacity of the Provisional IRA (or of any other 
terrorist orgaisation) to engage in terrorism will not be effectively destroyed until all its important members are removed.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7785')
	The capacity of the Provisional IRA (or of any other 
terrorist orgaisation) to engage in terrorism will not be effectively destroyed until all its important members are removed.

10. OUR HOPE IS THAT THESE MEASURES CAN BE STRICTLY TEMPORARY, WILL SERVE TO RE-ESTABLISH A SITUATION IN WHICH THE MANY SOCIAL AND OTHER REFORMS THAT HAVE BEEN INTRODUCED AND ARE STILL TO COME ARE RECOGNISED AT THEIR TRUE VALUE, AND WILL NOT PREJUDICE CONTINUING PROGRESS ON THE TASK OF BUILDING MORE HARMONIOUS INTER-COMMUNITY RELATIONS IN NORTHERN IRELAND.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_177')
	OUR HOPE IS THAT THESE MEASURES CAN BE STRICTLY TEMPORARY, WILL SERVE TO RE-ESTABLISH A SITUATION IN WHICH THE MANY SOCIAL AND OTHER REFORMS THAT HAVE BEEN INTRODUCED AND ARE STILL TO COME ARE RECOGNISED AT THEIR TRUE VALUE, AND WILL NOT PREJUDICE CONTINUING PROGRESS ON THE TASK OF BUILDING MORE HARMONIOUS INTER-COMMUNITY RELATIONS IN NORTHERN IRELAND.

Existing prisons are overcrowded, ship could too easily be sabotaged and transfer to Great Britain would require legislation here.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2299')
	transfer to Great Britain would require legislation here.

PROCEDURE: A Crown Representative to present the case, and the Defendant would have a right to legal representation.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6754')
	ROCEDURE: A Crown Representative to present the case, and the Defendant would have a right to legal representation.

OUR IMMEDIATE 
WE HAVE ALSO DECIDED THAT IT WOULD BE RIGHT IN PRINCIPLE TO BRING INTERMENT TO AN END, WHEN RESPECT FOR THE LAW AND A NORMAL SITUATION OF ORDER HAVE BEEN RESTORED THROUGHOUT THE PROVINCE.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7209')
	WE HAVE ALSO DECIDED THAT IT WOULD BE RIGHT IN PRINCIPLE TO BRING INTERMENT TO AN END, WHEN RESPECT FOR THE LAW AND A NORMAL SITUATION OF ORDER HAVE BEEN RESTORED THROUGHOUT THE PROVINCE.

Powers Act.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2281')
	You ITRELAND .A’- INT R1iE.NT uill know that considertion has been given to the need to 
tighten up security arrangements in Torthern Ireland and, in piticuilar, to the possibility of introducing internment under the Spcal.Powers Act.

CAN COMMIT THEMSELVES PUBLICLY TO A GUARANTEE THAT MR FAULKNER’S FINE WORDS WILL BE RAPIDLY TRANSLATED INTO SPECIFIC AND PRACTICAL AS DISTINCT FROM PAPER REFORMS, INTERNMENT WILL BE SEEN HERE TO HAVE AN EXPLICIT POSITIVE PURPOSE AS WELL AS THE NEGATIVE ONE OF ENDING TERRORISM, 7. I HAVE JUST LEARNED FROM THE D F A THAT DR HILLERY IS SEEING THE HOME SECRETARY AND MR GODBER TOMORROW.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_169')
	IF H.M.G. CAN COMMIT THEMSELVES PUBLICLY TO A GUARANTEE THAT MR FAULKNER’S FINE WORDS WILL BE RAPIDLY TRANSLATED INTO SPECIFIC AND PRACTICAL AS DISTINCT FROM PAPER REFORMS, INTERNMENT WILL BE SEEN HERE TO HAVE AN EXPLICIT POSITIVE PURPOSE AS WELL AS THE NEGATIVE ONE OF ENDING TERRORISM,

HE WILL AT THE SAME TIME ANOUNCE THAT ALL MARCHES AND PARADES THE BAN WILL BE IN THE FIRST 
INSTANCE FOR SIX MONTHS, BUT IT WILL BE MADE CLEAR THA THE NEED TO EXTEND AND RENEW THE BAN FOR A FURTHER PERIOD WILL BE CONSIDERED IN THE LIGHT OF THE SITUATION TOWARDS THE END OF THE PERIOD.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	ANNED UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE. 
HE WILL AT THE SAME TIME ANOUNCE THAT ALL MARCHES AND PARADES

IT CCNTINUES - 
I BELIEVE - BECAUSE OF IRRESPONSIBLE SPECULATION, 
WHICH ENCOURAGES AMONGST THE DIMINISHING RANKS OF THE TERRORISTS THE IDEA THAT THEY ONLY HAVE TO KEEP IT UP A LITTLE LONGER AND RESISTANCE TO THEIR EFFORTS WILL CRUMBLE:- THAT THE INTERNEES WILL BE RELEASED: THAT STORMONT WILL BE ABOLISHED: THAT A UNITED IRELAND, ENGINEERED BY THEM AND DOMINATED BY THEM, WILL BE JUST AROUND THE CORNER.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6926')
	YOU MAY ASK WHY IT IS, AS SO MANY OF THE IRA LEADERS ARE REMOVED FROM THE SCENE, THAT THE CAMPAIGN CONTINUES? IT CCNTINUES - 
I BELIEVE - BECAUSE OF IRRESPONSIBLE SPECULATION, 
WHICH ENCOURAGES AMONGST THE DIMINISHING RANKS OF THE TERRORISTS THE IDEA THAT THEY ONLY HAVE TO KEEP IT UP A LITTLE LONGER AND RESISTANCE TO THEIR EFFORTS WILL CRUMBLE:- THAT THE INTERNEES WILL BE RELEASED: THAT STORMONT WILL BE ABOLISHED: THAT A UNITED IRELAND, ENGINEERED BY THEM AND DOMINATED BY THEM, WILL BE JUST AROUND THE CORNER.

FAULKNER: 
I will never be swayed in an way by political pressure 
whether from my own Party or elsewhere on security matters,	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5239')
	I will never be swayed in an way by political pressure 
whether from my own Party or elsewhere on security matters, I’ve made this clear all alone, whether it relates to internment or to arming of the police or whatever, but I will be guided absolutely by the Chief Constable of the Loyal Ulster Constabulary on this matter, I will always seek his advice, and there certainly will be no qualms on my part about agreement from the Northern Ireland Government that the RUC should carry arms as and when it’s regarded that they should do se by the Chief Constable and I don’t think I’m stretching it at all to say that the United Kingdom Government would hold similar views to mine on that.

This tribunal will be asked to consider cases referred to it (which will include cases of those presently in internment or detention) to determine the nature of their involvement in terrorist activities with a view to their release or committal to a period of detention.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8053')
	This tribunal will be asked to consider cases referred to it (which will include cases of those presently in internment or detention) to determine the nature of their involvement in terrorist activities with a view to their release or committal to a period of detention.

ORDER, WOULD BE INVALUABLE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_177')
	ORDER, WOULD BE INVALUABLE.

The White Paper would deal with the future of the Special Legislation would be needed to give effect to 
Lord Diplock’s recommendations; it was hoped to introduce that legislation as soon as possible.	('PREM_15_1691', 'IMG_8880')
	Dr. Fitzgerald asked the British Government’s intentions on 
internment. The Prime Minister said that the British Government 
had changed the basis on which people were detained in Northern Ireland. 
Powers Act. 
The White Paper would deal with the future of the Special Legislation would be needed to give effect to 
Lord Diplock’s recommendations; it was hoped to introduce that legislation as soon as possible.

Regulation 11 
provides a limited power of detention and a limited right to photograph and finger-print and Regulation 12 a limited right of internment.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5013')
	Regulation 11 
provides a limited power of detention and a limited right to photograph and finger-print and Regulation 12 a limited right of internment. 
Regulation 13(5) provides 
that ’Persons detained or interned in any of Her Majesty’s prisons shall be subject to any rules for the government of prisoners awaiting trial including such general rules as are applicable to such prisoners, for the time being in force, except in so far as the said rules are inconsistent with this regulations.

Provisional IRA volunteers who, on the strength of 
reliable intelligence, are known to be an exceptionally serious threat to security.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1814')
	Anyone known to be holding officer rank in the 
Provisional IRA even though there is no evidence to justify criminal charges. 
Provisional IRA volunteers who, on the strength of 
reliable intelligence, are known to be an exceptionally serious threat to security.

’’A VICTORY FOR TERRORISM IN ANY PART OF THE UNITED KINGDOM WOULD BE A SIGNAL TO EVERY ANTI-DEMOCRATIC ELEMENT IN THE NATION THAT THE FABRIC OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY IS WIDE OPEN TO ATTACK.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6926')
	A VICTORY FOR TERRORISM IN ANY PART OF THE UNITED KINGDOM WOULD BE A SIGNAL TO EVERY ANTI-DEMOCRATIC ELEMENT IN THE NATION THAT THE FABRIC OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY IS WIDE OPEN TO ATTACK. THE MAIN LINE OF BATTLE MAY, AT THE MOMENT, LIE THROUGH ULSTER, BUT IT IS TRULY A NATIONAL STRUGGLE AND THE WHOLE BRITISH PEOPLE MUST, IN A FULL REALISATION OF WHAT IS AT STAKE, BE DETERMINED TO WIN IT. AND IF THE IRA SEE THAT DETERMINATION - SEE IT MANIFEST IN PUBLIC OPINION, IN THE EXPRESSIONS OF ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES, IN THE ACTION OF THE GOVERNMENT 
- THEN THEY WILL COME QUICKLY TO THE REALISATION 
THAT IT IS POINTLESS TO CONTINUE.

In itably the security forces would be involved to some degree; but there is a difference between assisting in rounding up and guarding internees and providing a Service facility for an internment site.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2294')
	g. Political Involvement. 
wish to consider how far they are prepared to associate themselves with controversial measures taken by the Northern Ireland Government. In itably the security forces would be involved to some degree; but there is a difference between assisting in rounding up and guarding internees and providing a Service facility for an internment site.

There continues to be little street activity but the incidence of explosions has been at least as high as before internment was introduced.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5836')
	There continues to be little street activity but the incidence of explosions has been at least as high as before internment was introduced.

The security forces have 
in fact been carrying out such an operation this morning. 5. 
When Faulkner came to London last week, he told us that he had come to the conclusion that internment was now	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_204')
	When Faulkner came to London last week, he told us that he had come to the conclusion that internment was now

3. 
- recommend that these powers The Government of the Irish Republic have announced their readiness 
to reactivate power of internment against conspiracies to kidnap prominent persons and the Government of the Republic recently lodged a notice of derogation with the European Commission.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2298')
	- recommend that these powers The Government of the Irish Republic have announced their readiness 
to reactivate power of internment against conspiracies to kidnap prominent persons and the Government of the Republic recently lodged a notice of derogation with the European Commission.

4. CGS mentioned the difference between Regulation 11 of the 
Special Powers Act which allowed holding (and questioning) for an indefinite period and Regulation 10 which had a statutory 48 hour time limit; it was this time limit that had been extended to those held under Regulation 11, by usage rather than by statute.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_2031')
	CGS mentioned the difference between Regulation 11 of the 
Special Powers Act which allowed holding (and questioning) for an indefinite period and Regulation 10 which had a statutory 48 hour time limit; it was this time limit that had been extended to those held under Regulation 11, by usage rather than by statute.

The Home Secretary said that earlier in the day 
Mr. Faulkner had given the impression that, if he were to visit London later in the week, he might express the view that it was now desirable to introduce internment.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_224')
	The Home Secretary said that earlier in the day 
Mr. Faulkner had given the impression that, if he were to visit London later in the week, he might express the view that it was now desirable to introduce internment.

phase and will rapidly lead to the need for an increase in the accommodation and interrogation facilities required to deal with internees.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6221')
	phase and will rapidly lead to the need for an increase in the accommodation and interrogation facilities required to deal with internees.

A. 
It was clearly intolerable that they should be able any 
longer by this means to place themselves effectively beyond the law.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5590')
	Furthermore, intimidation had made 
it more and more difficult to get witnesses to give evidence against members of the I.R.A. 
It was clearly intolerable that they should be able any 
longer by this means to place themselves effectively beyond the law.

The Compton Enquiry was appointed by the Home Secretary on 31 August to 
investigate allegations of physical brutality made by persons arrested on 9 August under the Special Powers Act.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5215')
	The Compton Enquiry was appointed by the Home Secretary on 31 August to 
investigate allegations of physical brutality made by persons arrested on 9 August under the Special Powers Act.

Internment was a major decision, which could not be 
said - as the GOC had earlier made clear - to be justified by any It must therefore be regarded as a political act, 
military necessity.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_212')
	It must therefore be regarded as a political act, 
military necessity. 
which would be thought to be directed against one faction and must accordingly be matched by some political action, in the form of a ban on marches, which would represent its counterpart in relation to the other faction.

11. However, as long as active terrorism persists and bombing and 
shooting continues, Her Majesty’s Government must retain the power to arrest and intern those whom there is good reason to believe are actively involved.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7215')
	However, as long as active terrorism persists and bombing and 
shooting continues, Her Majesty’s Government must retain the power to arrest and intern those whom there is good reason to believe are actively involved.

3. The whole operation, arrests followed by the interrogation of a small number of suspects (14),yielded information of great value without which the security forces could not defend the ordinary civilian against the campaign of terror and murder.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5083')
	The whole operation, arrests followed by the interrogation of a small number of suspects (14),yielded information of great value without which the security forces could not defend the ordinary civilian against the campaign of terror and murder.

is found in hi possession.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2175')
	acting or having acted, etc., in a manner prejudicial to the peace or where a document, etc., is found in hi possession.

Diplock Commission 
The possibility had to be faced that the Commission might report that there was no effective alternative to internment.	('PREM_15_1015', 'IMG_8441')
	The possibility had to be faced that the Commission might report that there was no effective alternative to internment.

But this seems inherent in the nature of the case.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8108')
	Proposal (ii) admittedly reverses the normal onus of proof - i. e. it is incumbent on the defendant to establish his innocence instead of on the prosecution to establish his guilt. But this seems inherent in the nature of the case.

Lord Windlesham explained that in the Secretary of State’s absence he was being invited to sign a Detention Order for a prisoner whom the RUC thought should be interrogated for longer than the 48-hour period which they would otherwise have been limited to.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1931')
	Lord Windlesham explained that in the Secretary of State’s absence he was being invited to sign a Detention Order for a prisoner whom the RUC thought should be interrogated for longer than the 48-hour period which they would otherwise have been limited to. Because of the strong recommendation made to him, Lord Windlesham intended to sign this Detention Order, but before doing so asked that Mr Johnston should explain to him the process of interrogation which the man was now likely to face.

We are now acting to remove the shadow of fear which hangs over too many of you.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2165')
	We are now acting to remove the shadow of fear which hangs over too many of you.

THE DECLARAT ON FOLLOWED A WEEKEhOCF REEWED RIOTIZC 
ti ROUVOUT THE PROVINCE WHICH LED TO THE DEATHS OF ,A SOLDIER AND A S CURITY QUARD.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2168')
	THE DECLARAT ON FOLLOWED A WEEKEhOCF REEWED RIOTIZC 
ti ROUVOUT THE PROVINCE WHICH LED TO THE DEATHS OF ,A SOLDIER AND A S CURITY QUARD.

Future policy on internees will depend on the developing situation.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7732')
	Future policy on internees will depend on the developing situation.

6. Under conditions of emergency, or near emergency, there is likely 
to be internal security legislation controlling the treatment of detainees and arrested persons.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5027')
	Under conditions of emergency, or near emergency, there is likely 
to be internal security legislation controlling the treatment of detainees and arrested persons. 
reflect prevailing conditions. 
Legislation will vary from country to country and Military personnel are to acquaint themselves 
with the laws of the country concerned, and will not act unlawfully under any circumstances whatever.

To implement the present policy there are in Northern Ireland The current deployment of these units is 
seven battalions in 39 Brigade, three battalions in 8 Brigade, two battalions and the two armoured recce regiments in 19 Brigade, with one battalion in Province reserve (see map at Annex A). 
Our ability to conduct successful operations against the terrorists depends fundamentally on intelligence.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6221')
	Our ability to conduct successful operations against the terrorists depends fundamentally on intelligence. 
6. Indiscriminate 
operations, which do not distinguish between the terrorists and the population among whom they live, are self-defeating.

Under 
agdlation 11(2) the Attorney-General has power to discharge the arson detained but not the Detention Order.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2176')
	Again, there is nothing in the Regula: which requires his to be done but, on the whole, I don’t think so. Under 
agdlation 11(2) the Attorney-General has power to discharge the arson detained but not the Detention Order.

Clearly that would have added to its effectiveness; but out discussions shoved that there was no possibility of parallel action south of the border.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2197')
	A little time ago, I was in touch with Mr. Lynch 
to try to discover whether he was contemplating the possibility of internment south of the border, if we were forced to. it north of the border. Clearly that would have added to its effectiveness; but out discussions shoved that there was no possibility of parallel action south of the border.

There are obvious objections to the enactment of a general indemnity To legislate 
to prevent those still detained from taking proceedings to challenge any invalidity in an internment order would be to return in effect to the regime of arbitrary imprisonment without trial under cover of a suspension of the Habeas Corpus Acts. 
The draft Bill prepared for the last N I 
Government suffered from this vice since it would have prevented any proceedings, civil or criminal, in respect of anything purporting to have been done under Regulations 10 to 13 of the Special Powers Regulations or in carrying out any order made under then (thus covering internment and detention orders and interrogation). 
An act was to be deemed to have It seems from an	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7699')
	There are obvious objections to the enactment of a general indemnity To legislate 
to prevent those still detained from taking proceedings to challenge any invalidity in an internment order would be to return in effect to the regime of arbitrary imprisonment without trial under cover of a suspension of the Habeas Corpus Acts. 
The draft Bill prepared for the last N I 
Government suffered from this vice since it would have prevented any proceedings, civil or criminal, in respect of anything purporting to have been done under Regulations 10 to 13 of the Special Powers Regulations or in carrying out any order made under then (thus covering internment and detention orders and interrogation). 
An act was to be deemed to have It seems from an

It is interesting to note that this technique is justified by ALJ on the grounds that no one can expect justice from the courts here, yet cases when the courts have found against members of the security forces for assault or other offences have been reported in the newspapers.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1924')
	It is interesting to note that this technique is justified by ALJ on the grounds that no one can expect justice from the courts here, yet cases when the courts have found against members of the security forces for assault or other offences have been reported in the newspapers.

should be used he would not hesitate to act.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2298')
	In response to recent demanded for internment the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland has said that if the security advisersthe G.O.C. and the Chief Constable of the R.U.C. 
should be used he would not hesitate to act.

’"CERTAINLY MR WILSON IS RIGHT TO SUGGEST THAT RESPONSIBILITY FOR SECURITY CANNOT REMAIN WITH STORMONT AND THAT INTERNMENT WITHOUT TRIAL SHOULD BE WOUND DOWN AND REPLACED IN APROPRIATE CASES WITH ACTIVATION OF THE ORDINARY RULES OF LAW. I AM CONVINCED THAT ONCE THE SECURITY AND INTERNMENT ISSUES HAVE BEEN DEALT WITH PROPERLY AND AN INTERIM COMMISSION TO ADMINISTER THE NORTH HAS	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6903')
	’"CERTAINLY MR WILSON IS RIGHT TO SUGGEST THAT RESPONSIBILITY FOR SECURITY CANNOT REMAIN WITH STORMONT AND THAT INTERNMENT WITHOUT TRIAL SHOULD BE WOUND DOWN AND REPLACED IN APROPRIATE CASES WITH ACTIVATION OF THE ORDINARY RULES OF LAW.

These are presumably those relating to stopping and searching, etc; but do they also include the powers of arrest without warrant?	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8109')
	Paragraph 8 of the Annex to GEN 79(72) 19, however, envisages retaining for the time being those parts of the Act which confer powers on the security forces. These are presumably those relating to stopping and searching, etc; but do they also include the powers of arrest without warrant?

It was not easy to charge people with being internees would do if they were released.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6983')
	The Prime Minister said that some thought was being given to ways of charging the internees and bringing them 
to trial. 
been made by Mr. Phelim O’Neil that Judge Brown’s Committee should be worked up into a kind of special court, had some merit. 
The GCC said that the suggestion which had 
members of the IRA; two convictions had however recently been obtained for this. 
It was not easy to charge people with being internees would do if they were released. 
The Prime Minister asked the GCC what he thought the The G said 
that he doubted whether the internees would mend their way

(V) YOUR PARA 3. I CAN CERTAINLY MAKE THESE POINTS BUT UNLESS I CONCEDE THAT UNIONIST PRESSURE IS ONE AMONG A NUMBER OF FACTORS I SHALL NOT BE BELIEVED.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2207')
	I CAN CERTAINLY MAKE THESE POINTS BUT UNLESS I CONCEDE THAT UNIONIST PRESSURE IS ONE AMONG A NUMBER OF FACTORS I SHALL NOT BE BELIEVED.

also had evidence that some of those previously in internMent had returned to terrorism, and he was criticised for the resultant deaths.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7950')
	also had evidence that some of those previously in internMent had returned to terrorism, and he was criticised for the resultant deaths.

CLEARLY THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNMENT IN NORTHERN IRELAND COULD HAVE BEEN INCREASED IF YOU HAD FELT ABLE TO TAKE SIMILAR MEASURES ON YOUR SIDE OF THE BORDER.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_176')
	CLEARLY THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNMENT IN NORTHERN IRELAND COULD HAVE BEEN INCREASED IF YOU HAD FELT ABLE TO TAKE SIMILAR MEASURES ON YOUR SIDE OF THE BORDER. BUT I JUDGED FROM OUR AMBASSADOR’S REPORT OF HIS RECENT TALK WITH YOU THAT THERE WAS NO PROSPECT OF THAT, AND I COULD NOT THEREFORE HOLD OUT THIS POSSIBILITY AS AN INDUCEMENT TO FAULKNER TO HOLD H IS HAND.

Its benefits should be felt not least in those areas where violent men have exercised a certain sway by threat and intimidation over decent and responsible men and women.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_51')
	Its benefits should be felt not least in those areas where violent men have exercised a certain sway by threat and intimidation over decent and responsible men and women.

DESPITE MANY PRESSURES THE SECRETARY OF STATE HAS STUCK TO THE POLICY OF RUNNING DOWN INTErNMENT.	('PREM_15_1007', 'IMG_7450')
	DESPITE MANY PRESSURES THE SECRETARY OF STATE HAS STUCK TO THE POLICY OF RUNNING DOWN INTErNMENT. HE WILL CONTINUE TO DO SO, BUT WHAT HE CAN DO MUST DEPEND IN LARGE DEGREE ON WHAT THE CATHOLIC COMMUNITY AND OTHERS CAN DO TO ISCLATE AND THUS DEFEAT THE IRA.

A REFERENCE TO INTERNMENT SHOULD INCLUDE THE POINTS IN PARAGRAPH 2 OF MY TELEGRAM NO 71 
. THERE SHOULD BE A PASSAGE ON REFORM, 
AND IN THAT CONNECTION I SHOULD LIKE TO REMIND YOU OF THE IDEA IN PARA 6 OF MY TELEGRAM NO 52 ABOUT A STANDING COMMISSION.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6205')
	A REFERENCE TO INTERNMENT SHOULD INCLUDE THE POINTS IN PARAGRAPH 2 OF MY TELEGRAM NO 71 
. THERE SHOULD BE A PASSAGE ON REFORM, 
AND IN THAT CONNECTION I SHOULD LIKE TO REMIND YOU OF THE IDEA IN PARA 6 OF MY TELEGRAM NO 52 ABOUT A STANDING COMMISSION. WHAT I RECOMMEND IS A MAJOR MINISTERIAL STATEMENT, SHOWING EQUAL DETERMINATION IN THE MILITARY AND THE POLITICAL FIELDS, AND ASSERTING THE AUTHORITY OF HMG IN THE UK IN BOTH.

4. As regards the Directive on Interrogation you asked that the Ministers 
concerned should specifically consider whether they regarded it as suitable for publication if, in extreme circumstances, we felt that we had no alternative but to publish it.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7697')
	As regards the Directive on Interrogation you asked that the Ministers 
concerned should specifically consider whether they regarded it as suitable for publication if, in extreme circumstances, we felt that we had no alternative but to publish it. 
In so far as considerations of security 
are involved, the JIG have reaffirmed their view that there would be no ultimate objection to publication; and Ministers have been so advised individually.

But I can say that the decision which I have just announced in relation to interment is fully endorsed by the Government’s professional military advisors.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7164')
	But I can say that the decision which I have just announced in relation to interment is fully endorsed by the Government’s professional military advisors.

He thought that the SDLP could maintain their credibility if, after this meeting, they put out a statement on the lines that they had again put their case to the Secretary of State; that they had been told that HMG would keep the position under review; that they were disappointed that more internees had not been let out; and that the Secretary of State had made it clear that it remained HMG policy to phase out internment depending on the security situation.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7902')
	He thought that the SDLP could maintain their credibility if, after this meeting, they put out a statement on the lines that they had again put their case to the Secretary of State; that they had been told that HMG would keep the position under review; that they were disappointed that more internees had not been let out; and that the Secretary of State had made it clear that it remained HMG policy to phase out internment depending on the security situation.

12. The action we have now taken does not indicate any policy of repression.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2165')
	The action we have now taken does not indicate any policy of repression. We are acting not to suppress freedom, but to allow the overwhelming mass of our people to enjoy freedom

(f) Given an intention to dispense with internment, there seems no alternative to the detention under Regulation 11 of persons arrested as terrorists until special courts or tribunals are introduced.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8109')
	Given an intention to dispense with internment, there seems no alternative to the detention under Regulation 11 of persons arrested as terrorists until special courts or tribunals are introduced.

declarations of their intention to continue and even escalate that campaign have made it impossible for him to resist the pressures on him, not only from his political supporters but from the business community and others whose lives are being disrupted, for more drastic action.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2196')
	declarations of their intention to continue and even escalate that campaign have made it impossible for him to resist the pressures on him, not only from his political supporters but from the business community and others whose lives are being disrupted, for more drastic action.

AT THE END OF THE MONTH WILL NOT NOW TAKE PLACE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	AT THE END OF THE MONTH WILL NOT NOW TAKE PLACE.

of law and order in Northern Ireland.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2195')
	in the light of the latest assessment of the security situation in Northern Ireland and all other relevant factors, and after consultation with the British Government, the Northern Ireland Government has decided to activate its powers of internment so as to enable the security forces to arrest and detain peoplesuspected of responsibility for committing or abetting acts of terrorism and other breaches of the peace designed to lead to a breakdown, of law and order in Northern Ireland.

NORTHERN IRELAND DRAFT STATEMENT 
Political progress in Northern Ireland is bound to be impeded so long as 
violence and intimidation continue; and the purpose of internment, and of the Army’s measures which are directed impartially at violence from whatever quarter, is to restore to Northern Ireland the necessary degree of stability for further political advance.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5783')
	Political progress in Northern Ireland is bound to be impeded so long as 
violence and intimidation continue; and the purpose of internment, and of the Army’s measures which are directed impartially at violence from whatever quarter, is to restore to Northern Ireland the necessary degree of stability for further political advance.

The courts had in fact dealt firmly with a large number of cases and he would supply details of these to assist public presentation in Great Britain.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6175')
	The courts had in fact dealt firmly with a large number of cases and he would supply details of these to assist public presentation in Great Britain.

’WHAT IF I WERE TO LISTEN NOW TO MR HUME AND HIS COLLEAGUES, 
AND EMPTY THE CAMPS TOMORROW?	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6926')
	’WHAT IF I WERE TO LISTEN NOW TO MR HUME AND HIS COLLEAGUES, 
AND EMPTY THE CAMPS TOMORROW? WHO CAN SERIOUSLY IMAGINE THAT IN THAT SITUATION THEY WOULD BE ABLE TO EXERT ANY INFLUENCE FOR PEACE? THEY WOULD BE SWEPT ASIDE BY THE TRIUMPHANT GUNMAN.

The most important sources of formation were the secret posts, which as they were not interrupted were believed by the internes to be perfectly secure.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2146')
	The most important sources of formation were the secret posts, which as they were not interrupted were believed by the internes to be perfectly secure. These letters were particularly useful especially to the branch compiling the-Order of Battle and Irish Republican Army list.

I have stated in public that we would raise no objection to internment if we were satisfied on the advice of the security authorities and after consultation with you on the wider aspects that this would help in the campaign against the IRA.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_220')
	I have stated in public that we would raise no objection to internment if we were satisfied on the advice of the security authorities and after consultation with you on the wider aspects that this would help in the campaign against the IRA.

HE SAID THAT HIS GOVERNMENT WAS NOT CONTEMPLATING INTERNMENT IN THE REPUBLIC AT THE PRESENT TIME.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_164')
	HE SAID THAT HIS GOVERNMENT WAS NOT CONTEMPLATING INTERNMENT IN THE REPUBLIC AT THE PRESENT TIME.

(iii) A note on the cumulative 
successes achieved by interrogation in the postinternment phase in Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5074')
	(iii) A note on the cumulative 
successes achieved by interrogation in the postinternment phase in Northern Ireland.

And, more generally, does he see any real end to sectarian terrorism in the foreseeable future?	('PREM_15_1693', 'IMG_9159')
	The Secretary of State is probably right in saying that "We cannot go on indefinitely increasing the number of people held". But what alternative does he suggest? And, more generally, does he see any real end to sectarian terrorism in the foreseeable future?

1. 1113 G dated 9th December 1972. At the meeting at Stormont Castle on 11th December, the GOC tabled 
a paper on Arrest Policy for Protestants, proposing a form of words to be incorporated in the Army’s arrest instructions in the event of a decision to widen the arrest policy in respect of Protestant terrorists.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1811')
	he GOC tabled 
a paper on Arrest Policy for Protestants, proposing a form of words to be incorporated in the Army’s arrest instructions in the event of a decision to widen the arrest policy in respect of Protestant terrorists.

we could 
further modify the Regulation (and indeed it is understood that the Northern Ireland Government themselves had the possibility of a provision for conditional release in mind in any revision of the Regulations). 
But if under the 
existing Regulation internment were converted to a residence and reporting condition in the case of individuals it would seem to carry the advantage that the individuals would not cease to be persons judged to be a danger to public safety. 
Whether conditions would be enforceable 
(there is a penalty of 6 months imprisonment) is another question 
The words "for the remainder of my life" might	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7251')
	Regulation 12 already empowers 
the Minister of Home Affairs to make conditions of residence and reporting to the police and the like as an alternative to internment. 
If we took over internment, we could 
further modify the Regulation (and indeed it is understood that the Northern Ireland Government themselves had the possibility of a provision for conditional release in mind in any revision of the Regulations). 
But if under the 
existing Regulation internment were converted to a residence and reporting condition in the case of individuals it would seem to carry the advantage that the individuals would not cease to be persons judged to be a danger to public safety.

When combating 
a terrorist campaign time is of the essence; information must be sought while it is still fresh so that it may be used as quickly as possible to effect the capture of persons, arms and explosives and thereby save the lives of members of the security forces and of the civil population.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5191')
	Intelligence is the key to successful operations against terrorists; and the key to intelligence is information regarding their operations, their dispositions, and their plans. When combating 
a terrorist campaign time is of the essence; information must be sought while it is still fresh so that it may be used as quickly as possible to effect the capture of persons, arms and explosives and thereby save the lives of members of the security forces and of the civil population.

The least unprofitable outcome of this part of the discussion would be 
an undertaking by Mr. Faulkner - ?	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5707')
	The least unprofitable outcome of this part of the discussion would be 
an undertaking by Mr. Faulkner - ? which might be publicly quoted that internment will he Definitely brought to an end as soon as political stability is restored (unless criminal charges can be preferred in the normal way).

7. All that said, it is possible to envisage a campaign of assassination and perhaps kidnapping in which the two governments would find a popular demand for internment too great to resist.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4855')
	All that said, it is possible to envisage a campaign of assassination and perhaps kidnapping in which the two governments would find a popular demand for internment too great to resist.

even this draconian procedure would not meet all our difficulties.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4923')
	even this draconian procedure would not meet all our difficulties.

WHICH OBLIGED STORMONT TO RESORT TO INTERNMENT RATHER THAN TRIALS.	('PREM_15_486', 'IMG_6385')
	THIS WOULD IN ANY CASE BE POLITICALLY UNACCEPTABLE BUT EVEN IF IT WERE NOT IT WOULD BE OPEN TO ALL THE DIFFICULTIES ABOUT THE INTIMIDATION OF WITNESSES AND REPRISALS ETC. WHICH OBLIGED STORMONT TO RESORT TO INTERNMENT RATHER THAN TRIALS.

Internment had been introduced because the Government was faced with It was in the common interest of both 
countries to combat the activities of gunmen and it was hoped that the Government of the Republic would be able to help achieve that objective.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_143')
	Internment had been introduced because the Government was faced with It was in the common interest of both 
countries to combat the activities of gunmen and it was hoped that the Government of the Republic would be able to help achieve that objective.

THE RIGHT TO MAKE REPRESENTATION.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_196')
	THE RIGHT TO MAKE REPRESENTATION.

SPECIAL COURT Recognizing the political impasse, and feeling of community 
alienation, resulting from internment, but also recogizing that the needs of justice demand that witnesses and jurors should be free from physical fear we recommend the follwing:- 
That a Special Court should be set up to try offences under the undermentioned Acts: (i) Explosive substances Act 1893 S2,3,4, & 5. (11) Firearms Act (N.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6754')
	Recognizing the political impasse, and feeling of community 
alienation, resulting from internment, but also recogizing that the needs of justice demand that witnesses and jurors should be free from physical fear we recommend the follwing:- 
That a Special Court should be set up to try offences under the undermentioned Acts: (i) Explosive substances Act 1893 S2,3,4, & 5. (11) Firearms Act (N.I.) 1969 S14,15,16,18 18(1), 19. (111) Explosive substances Act 1875 S4, & 5. (lv) Protection of Persons and Property Act (N.I.) 1969 S1,2,3. (v) 
Public Order (Amendment) Act (N.I.) S7.8.(if on indictment) Any person charged under the above provisions shall be tried at the 
Special Court. No bail shall be allowed on any of these charges unless there are special humanitarian reasons.

Irish case on an eighteenth century indemnity enactment that a good faith provision would allow proceedings for bodily maltreatment.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7699')
	Irish case on an eighteenth century indemnity enactment that a good faith provision would allow proceedings for bodily maltreatment.

Extract 
JIC(65)15(amended) 17th February 1965 (as amended 10th February 1967) 
JOINT DIRECTIVE ON MILITARY INTERROGATION IN INTERNAL SECURITY OPERATIONS OVERSEAS 
INTRODUCTION Persons arrested or detained during Internal Security operations or 
in near emergency situations are likely to be valuable sources of intelligence.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5026')
	Persons arrested or detained during Internal Security operations or 
in near emergency situations are likely to be valuable sources of intelligence.

ALTHOUGH UNTIL RECENTLY THE BRADYITES HAVE TENDED TO BE THE MORE VIOLENT, THE GOULDINGITES HAVE IN RECENT WEEKS BEEN ACTIVE IN CAUSING VIOLENCE IN THE NORTH AND ALSO ATTACKS ON FOREIGN PROPERTY IN THE IRISH REPUBLIC ITSELF.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_166')
	THE IRA’S TWO FACTIONS, BRADYITES AND GOULDINGITES, BOTH PROFESS A REVOLUTIONARY CREED, AND THE LATTER’S PROGRAMME IS AVOWEDLY MARXIST. ALTHOUGH UNTIL RECENTLY THE BRADYITES HAVE TENDED TO BE THE MORE VIOLENT, THE GOULDINGITES HAVE IN RECENT WEEKS BEEN ACTIVE IN CAUSING VIOLENCE IN THE NORTH AND ALSO ATTACKS ON FOREIGN PROPERTY IN THE IRISH REPUBLIC ITSELF.

His Excellency’s Ministers strongly contest the suggestion in 
your message that there are now "in Stormont’s terms an additional 5,000 members of the minority qualified for interment". This is perhaps a suggestion that people are interned because of their political views.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4973')
	This is perhaps a suggestion that people are interned because of their political views. The Prime Minister has publicly stated and repeated that persons are interned solely because they are deemed to be members of, or actively associated with, subversive organisations. 
Where 
the Advisory Committee have been satisfied that an internee does not fall into this category they have so recommended and that man has been released.

I SHOULD ALSO SEER HIS AGREEMENT THAT OUR DISCUSSION ON INTERNMENT IS TOTALLY DENIABLE AND HAS NOT TAKEN PLACE.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2207')
	I SHOULD ALSO SEER HIS AGREEMENT THAT OUR DISCUSSION ON INTERNMENT IS TOTALLY DENIABLE AND HAS NOT TAKEN PLACE.

You will wish to consider particularly reference to the value of internment as a contribution to averting a move to direct rule 3. 
You will see that emphsis has been put on the 
security arguments for the introduction of internment.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2215')
	You will wish to consider particularly reference to the value of internment as a contribution to averting a move to direct rule 3. 
You will see that emphsis has been put on the 
security arguments for the introduction of internment.

Appendix 1 to Annex B to A/BR/30/3/1/MO4 Dated 
January 1973 
SUMMARY OF SECURITY FORCES ACHIEVEMENTS SINCE OPERATION MOTORMAN 31 JULY - 31 DECEMBER 1972 
1. Despite the withdrawal of nine IS battalions since the implementation of 
Operation MOTORMAN, Phase 3 of the operation, the build up of intelligence and the removal of key terrorists, continues.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_155')
	Despite the withdrawal of nine IS battalions since the implementation of 
Operation MOTORMAN, Phase 3 of the operation, the build up of intelligence and the removal of key terrorists, continues.

6. 
In so far as the draft annexed to GEN 79(72) 21 makes it clear that 
the Government are not prepared to end internment pending the creation of new legal procedures, the statement must presumably be regarded as the answer to the SDLP which you promised them at the end of your meeting with them last week.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8062')
	In so far as the draft annexed to GEN 79(72) 21 makes it clear that 
the Government are not prepared to end internment pending the creation of new legal procedures, the statement must presumably be regarded as the answer to the SDLP which you promised them at the end of your meeting with them last week.

terrorism on an intolerable scale.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_143')
	terrorism on an intolerable scale.

3. 
In addition the following specific questions need attention:(i) 
Internment procedures.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6558')
	Internment procedures. The Home Secretary raised with 
Mr. Faulkner at their recent meeting the possibility of improving these procedures, e. g. by giving an internee a written statement of the allegation against him; by considering appeals in two stages, with legal representation at one but not at the other; and by enlarging the Appeals Committee in order to accelerate the hearings. Mr. Faulkner undertook to submit proposals on all these points; but we should keep up the pressure to ensure that he does so.

For deep interrogation the penalties would probably be nominal and the Crown could stand by the personnel as in civil actions.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4928')
	For deep interrogation the penalties would probably be nominal and the Crown could stand by the personnel as in civil actions. If the possibility of a more serious penalty such as imprisonment was involved we should resort to an Act of Indemnity on an individual basis.

(c) a person detained by order of a commissioner has a right of appeal to an independent tribunal;	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9321')
	a person detained by order of a commissioner has a right of appeal to an independent tribunal

would be Protestants.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_145')
	would be Protestants. If Protestants engaged in terrorism they too would 
be dealt with; so far there was no infomation to confirm that Protestants had been sniping.

extremists will be liable to internment; and the marches due in Derry on 12 August and in Belfast at the end of the month will not take place.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2197')
	We have sought to ensure that the measures taken do not discriminate as between the different sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable. 
Protestants as well as Catholic and I.R.A., 
extremists will be liable to internment; and the marches due in Derry on 12 August and in Belfast at the end of the month will not take place.

As to the committee itself, he was in process of setting it up and had invited Judge Brown, a Northern Ireland county court judge, to preside.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5872')
	s to the committee itself, he was in process of setting it up and had invited Judge Brown, a Northern Ireland county court judge, to preside. The apparatus of the committee would not be required until internment orders (as opposed to detention orders) had been made.

7. The second ground - troop accommodation - needs to be examined 
against the background of current and projected force levels and the means of housing them.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2255')
	The second ground - troop accommodation - needs to be examined 
against the background of current and projected force levels and the means of housing them.

It should be noted that since the introduction of the "Detention of Terrorists" (Northern Ireland) Order 1972 on 7 November 1972 there have been 265 arrests with a view to possible detention.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_159')
	It should be noted that since the introduction of the "Detention of Terrorists" (Northern Ireland) Order 1972 on 7 November 1972 there have been 265 arrests with a view to possible detention.

In the meantime, however, he was perfectly prepared 
to make more extensive use of his powers to detain and would do so until the issue was discussed in the house.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_2031')
	In the meantime, however, he was perfectly prepared 
to make more extensive use of his powers to detain and would do so until the issue was discussed in the house.

the paper it was asserted that the members of the R.U.C. Special Branch "are for the most part known to those internees whom they have arrested or interrogated". If this is so, it removes part of the objection to bringing internees to trial, if necessary In some special court.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6743')
	the paper it was asserted that the members of the R.U.C. Special Branch "are for the most part known to those internees whom they have arrested or interrogated". If this is so, it removes part of the objection to bringing internees to trial, if necessary In some special court.

We think this is likely to be On the question of publication of the 
report of the visit, we understand that this would normally be published subject to the agreement of the country concerned.	('PREM_15_481', 'IMG_5717')
	n the question of publication of the 
report of the visit, we understand that this would normally be published subject to the agreement of the country concerned. 
I understand that 
in this case, Stormont rather than Westminster would be the appropriate authority.

detained for custodial purposes only and not for any punifive purpose, the conditions of their confinement will be as little as possible oppressive, due regard being had to the necessity of ensuring safe custody and maintaining order and good behaviour.	('PREM_15_484', 'IMG_6314')
	1. As persons detained in pursuance of Regulation 18B are 
.so. detained for custodial purposes only and not for any punifive purpose, the conditions of their confinement will be as little as possible oppressive, due regard being had to the necessity of ensuring safe custody and maintaining order and good behaviour.

We might also provide that hearsay evidence was to be admissible (and this would undoubtedly increase the number of cases in which we might look for a conviction). The court would need to be given power to impose a sentence instead of an open-ended internment order.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4922')
	he Lord Chancellor tells me that it would be possible to devise a procedure for such circumstances which could nevertheless be regarded as judicial. The procedure would have to be very different from court procedure as known in this country. It would be inquisitorial; the court would be able to ask the accused questions and draw inferences from refusal to answer; material provided on deposition could also be put to the accused. We might also provide that hearsay evidence was to be admissible (and this would undoubtedly increase the number of cases in which we might look for a conviction). The court would need to be given power to impose a sentence instead of an open-ended internment order.

AFTER RESPONSIBILITY HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED, WE WILL RELEASE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE THOSE INTERNEES WHOSE FREEDOM IS NOT NOW CONSIDERED TO INVOLVE ANY UNREASONABLE RISK TO SECURITY.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7209')
	AFTER RESPONSIBILITY HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED, WE WILL RELEASE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE THOSE INTERNEES WHOSE FREEDOM IS NOT NOW CONSIDERED TO INVOLVE ANY UNREASONABLE RISK TO SECURITY.

FAULKNER’S JUDGEMENT 
WAS THAT THE CONSEQUENCES OF THAT FOR THE COMMUNITY WOULD BE WORSE THAN THE CONSEQUENCES OF WHAT IS NOW PROPOSED.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_180')
	FAULKNER’S JUDGEMENT 
WAS THAT THE CONSEQUENCES OF THAT FOR THE COMMUNITY WOULD BE WORSE THAN THE CONSEQUENCES OF WHAT IS NOW PROPOSED.

He explained why he could not end internment, though he might be able to release some more internees.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7969')
	He explained why he could not end internment, though he might be able to release some more internees.

BUT I JUDGED FROM OUR AMBASSADOR’S REPORT OF HIS RECENT TALK WITH YOU THAT THERE WAS NO PROSPECT OF THAT, AND I COULD NOT THEREFORE HOLD OUT THIS POSSIBILITY AS AN INDUCEMENT TO FAULKNER TO HOLD H IS HAND.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_176')
	CLEARLY THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNMENT IN NORTHERN IRELAND COULD HAVE BEEN INCREASED IF YOU HAD FELT ABLE TO TAKE SIMILAR MEASURES ON YOUR SIDE OF THE BORDER. BUT I JUDGED FROM OUR AMBASSADOR’S REPORT OF HIS RECENT TALK WITH YOU THAT THERE WAS NO PROSPECT OF THAT, AND I COULD NOT THEREFORE HOLD OUT THIS POSSIBILITY AS AN INDUCEMENT TO FAULKNER TO HOLD H IS HAND.

If the I.R.A.	('PREM_15_1016', 'IMG_8589')
	If the I.R.A. mounted a campaign of violence in the UK we should 
have to think again - although we might then want to act on the lines of the 1939 Prevention of Violence Act (but perhaps not limited to Irish affairs).

2. 
You might speak on the following lines:In the first few months following the 
introduction of internment on 9 August the IRA terrorism was fairly effective.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7220')
	In the first few months following the 
introduction of internment on 9 August the IRA terrorism was fairly effective. 
By November 
however the Army’s tactics began to have an impact. In January the Government were able to contemplate a situation arising in the spring or early summer when the IRA’s hold over the Catholic minority (except in London-derry) would have been loosened to the point where it might have become possible to hold talks of the kind envisaged by the Home Secretary in his statement of 7 September.

When an admission was made during the course of interrogation, Special Branch called on the CID, would remove the prisoner to a Police Station and treat him there in strict accordance with the judges’ rules: statements would be taken, etc.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1931')
	When an admission was made during the course of interrogation, Special Branch called on the CID, would remove the prisoner to a Police Station and treat him there in strict accordance with the judges’ rules: statements would be taken, etc.

Regrettably also, some of the active opposition to internment and much of the misrepresentation about its use have encouraged terrorism.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4973')
	Regrettably also, some of the active opposition to internment and much of the misrepresentation about its use have encouraged terrorism.

I do not for one moment confuse your community with the IRA or I imagine that these acts of terror have been committed in your name or with your approval.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2165')
	I do not for one moment confuse your community with the IRA or I imagine that these acts of terror have been committed in your name or with your approval.

27 July 1972 
The Rt Hon Sir Burke Trend GCB CVO Cabinet Office 70 Whitehall London S W 1 
At the end of this morning’s meeting of GEN 79 my Secretary of State made a plea for a study of some new arrangements which would enable the Government to avoid the great embarrassment of being forced back on to the Faulkner Government’s policy of search, arrest, interrogation and internment.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7783')
	At the end of this morning’s meeting of GEN 79 my Secretary of State made a plea for a study of some new arrangements which would enable the Government to avoid the great embarrassment of being forced back on to the Faulkner Government’s policy of search, arrest, interrogation and internment.

He recognised that responsibility for the present suffering, misery and death was shared "by those who neglected to remedy or who turned a blind eye 
INTERVIEW WITH MR WEST 15. 
Mr West, the Minister for Agriculture and the most right wing 
member of Mr Faulkner’s Cabinet, said in a radio interview on 29 August that he was satisfied with Mr Faulkner’s policies at the moment.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5631')
	Mr West, the Minister for Agriculture and the most right wing 
member of Mr Faulkner’s Cabinet, said in a radio interview on 29 August that he was satisfied with Mr Faulkner’s policies at the moment. He thought Mr Paisley had recently made errors of judgement which had reduced Mr Paisley’s support. He spoke harshly both of Mr Lynch, whose attempts at interference he deplored and of Mr Wilson for his statements on internment (see HONIP(71) 34 paragraph 2).

CAMPA14N AGAINST TE 
4.R A Al ALL PARADES IN THE TROUBLE-IORN PROVINCE HAVE BEEN BANED FOR SIX MONTHS 
’I I CLOUD 11- THE BIQ APPRElNfICE BOYSL 
MARCH IN 1U0I’VODE RRY ON THURSDAY rHE S EEP-Its POWERS OF -INTERNNENT WITHOUT TRIAL OF SUSP CTS 
ThOUHT TO HAVE AIDED TERRORISM WER ANNOUNCED AT STORHONf, BY PR-IFE’ HINI STER Bh IAN FAULKAER.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2168')
	INTERNfE w WAs IKROUCED IN NORC HflHRN .R LA1DTCAY A’S "E 
LATEST S’i)P IN 7iSE AUTHORITIES! CAMPA14N AGAINST TE 
4.R A Al ALL PARADES IN THE TROUBLE-IORN PROVINCE HAVE BEEN BANED FOR SIX MONTHS 
’I I CLOUD 11- THE BIQ APPRElNfICE BOYSL 
MARCH IN 1U0I’VODE RRY ON THURSDAY rHE S EEP-Its POWERS OF -INTERNNENT WITHOUT TRIAL OF SUSP CTS 
ThOUHT TO HAVE AIDED TERRORISM WER ANNOUNCED AT STORHONf, BY PR-IFE’ HINI STER Bh IAN FAULKAER.

and that any form of indemnity which appreciably abridges existing domestic remedies in respect of the breaches of the Human Rights Convention alleged by the Government of the Republic would undermine our case against the admissibility of the allegations before the Commission at Strasbourg.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_175')
	Officials point out that the question of 
indemnity only arises when the wide powers conferred under the Special Powers Acts are exceeded; that there are obvious objections to the enactment of a general indemnity before order has been restored and all detainees released; and that any form of indemnity which appreciably abridges existing domestic remedies in respect of the breaches of the Human Rights Convention alleged by the Government of the Republic would undermine our case against the admissibility of the allegations before the Commission at Strasbourg

BUT I JUDGED FROMOUR AMBASSADORS REPORT OF HIS RECENT TALK WITH YOU THAT THERE WAS NO PROSPECT OF THAT, AND IC COULD NOT THEREFORE HOLD OUT THIS POSSIBILITY AS AN INDUCEMENT TO FAULKNER TO HOLD HIS HAND.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	CLEARLY THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNMENT IN NORTHERN IRELAND COULD HAVE BEN INCREASED IF YOU HAD FELT ABLE TO TAKE SIMILAR MEASURES ON YOUR SIDE OF THE BORDER. BUT I JUDGED FROMOUR AMBASSADORS REPORT OF HIS RECENT TALK WITH YOU THAT THERE WAS NO PROSPECT OF THAT, AND IC COULD NOT THEREFORE HOLD OUT THIS POSSIBILITY AS AN INDUCEMENT TO FAULKNER TO HOLD HIS HAND.

if there is reason to think he may be able to give information about the offence or important information about the IRA generally.	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1759')
	anyone caught in the company of someone caught in the act of committing, or having just committed, a criminal offence, if there is reason to think he may be able to give information about the offence or important information about the IRA generally.

In addition the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act (Northern Ireland) 1922 (referred to as the Special Powers Act or SPA) confers further powers of arrest on soldiers on duty.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1807')
	In addition the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act (Northern Ireland) 1922 (referred to as the Special Powers Act or SPA) confers further powers of arrest on soldiers on duty.

Ireland under the Special Powers Act are as follows.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6840')
	Ireland under the Special Powers Act are as follows. 
correct up to 7 February. arrested released without detention order released after detention order escaped from detentions 
released after consideration by Advisory Committee 
released from internment on recommendation of RUC 
The latest complete figures for those arrested in Northern They are 
2364 
1408 113 10 31 2 
1564 800 
held under Regulation 10 held under detention order interned 
42 
160 598 800 
31 January are as follows: cases reviewed 
Statistics of proceedings before the Advisory Committee as at 383 Internees refused to appear 
continued interment recommended release recommended 
refused to give undertaking not to indulge 
in violence or encourage others to do so and therfore still interned 
cases adjourned 
4 3 
291 345 35

He did not think that the I 
would also help. The Prime Minister said that the Advisory Committee	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6711')
	continuing to recommend the release of those whom were now 
so short of arms that large numbers of internees could safely be released. 
they thought it right to release; about 30 had already been released. He did not think that the I

the present undertaking could be improved so as to make it more acceptable to internees. 
on the internees released by Judge Brown’s Committee and it seemed that they were not "slipping back". 
It was possible that the wording of An eye had been kept 
It was however important	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6983')
	It was however important

Mr. Lynch had to realise that an immediate release of all internees, as the SDLP had proposed, was quite unacceptable.	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6710')
	r. Lynch had to realise that an immediate release of all internees, as the SDLP had proposed, was quite unacceptable.

may have more succes in getting evidence). 
6. If internment were decided on, its effectiveness would largely depend 
on moving with the least possible advance warning.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2299')
	the normal processes of investigation, detection and trial are obstructed by a wall of silence created either by intimidation or sympathy (but those Metropolitan Police C.I.D. may have more succes in getting evidence).

This would not do for us.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4922')
	required so far as possible to follow normal procedures as regards rules of evidence and standards of proof. This would not do for us.

There shall be no right of appeal from the Special Court, and the 
Court, subject to the discretion of the Bench, should be closed to the Public but open to Members of the Press.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6755')
	There shall be no right of appeal from the Special Court, and the 
Court, subject to the discretion of the Bench, should be closed to the Public but open to Members of the Press.

Major Chichester-Clark had not proposed internment; indeed he had made it clear that he was opposed to it, though his Right Wing wanted it. There were two substantial objections; the difficulties of finding a place to detain	('PREM_15_476', 'IMG_5433')
	Major Chichester-Clark had not proposed internment; indeed he had made it clear that he was opposed to it, though his Right Wing wanted it.

We have sought to ensure that the measures taken do not discriminate as between the different sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2197')
	We have sought to ensure that the measures taken do not discriminate as between the different sections of the community, except as the facts of the situation make inevitable. 
Protestants as well as Catholic and I.R.A., 
extremists will be liable to internment;

So far from its being a cause of death and destruction, it was introduced only because other measures had proved inadequate to counter the campaign of death and destruction previously launched by the organisations seeking to overthrow the institutions of the state. It is regrettably	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4972')
	So far from its being a cause of death and destruction, it was introduced only because other measures had proved inadequate to counter the campaign of death and destruction previously launched by the organisations seeking to overthrow the institutions of the state.

An advisory committee will be set up, to 
I regret no less than you that these new measures have I hope that, in the light of what 
There will be many 
who will call for violent action in response to these measures; a reminder from you that violence serves no purpose, and that internment is aimed against particular individuals who are avowedly working for a breakdown of law and order, would be invaluable.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_187')
	I regret no less than you that these new measures have I hope that, in the light of what 
There will be many 
who will call for violent action in response to these measures; a reminder from you that violence serves no purpose, and that internment is aimed against particular individuals who are avowedly working for a breakdown of law and order, would be invaluable.

used by the Secretary of State on the future of Interrogation; that the Government could not be expected to tie its hands, but would obviously be having full regard to 
- in this case - the improved security situation - and that the Press and public 
must read between the lines of those remarks.)	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6575')
	used by the Secretary of State on the future of Interrogation; that the Government could not be expected to tie its hands, but would obviously be having full regard to 
- in this case - the improved security situation - and that the Press and public 
must read between the lines of those remarks.

activities of 1956-62 a notice of derogation was in 1957 lodged in Strasbourg.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2298')
	in the course of the I.R.A. activities of 1956-62 a notice of derogation was in 1957 lodged in Strasbourg.

As I promised I have begun to review personally the cases of the 728 people still interned under the Special Powers Act.	('PREM_15_1006', 'IMG_7290')
	As I promised I have begun to review personally the cases of the 728 people still interned under the Special Powers Act.

ent non 1;ho scek 
to divide uo.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_54')
	defeat - anduiiitc to defoa -those v io.ent non 1;ho scek 
to divide uo.

MIGHT BE FORCED TO RESORT TO INTERNMENT AND THE PRIME MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND SAID AGAIN THAT THERE WOULD BE, IN ANY EVENT, PRIOR CONSULTATION WITH US. 
DOUGLAS-HOME DEPARTMENTAL DISTRIBUTION 
DEFENCE D RESEARCH D (W 
ADDITIONAL DISTRIBUTION NORTHERN IRELAND 
E SEC)	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4827')
	THERE WAS SOME DISCUSSION OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH THE 
NORTHERN IRELAND GOVT. MIGHT BE FORCED TO RESORT TO INTERNMENT AND THE PRIME MINISTER OF NORTHERN IRELAND SAID AGAIN THAT THERE WOULD BE, IN ANY EVENT, PRIOR CONSULTATION WITH US

by a complete ban on marches and parades of all kinds; and we have made clear our present view that that ban will need to remain in force 
nt although the extension after six months remains formally open for discussion.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_192')
	we have made it clear that there could be no question of our accepting internment, and instructing our forces to help to implement it, if it was not accompanied.by a complete ban on marches and parades of all kinds; and we have made clear our present view that that ban will need to remain in force 
nt although the extension after six months remains formally open for discussion.

11. I am sorry that this decision will inevitably interfere 
with rights and traditions cherished by many people, but I mut ask all concerned to accept it as truly necessary in the vital interests of th e country.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_53')
	I am sorry that this decision will inevitably interfere 
with rights and traditions cherished by many people, but I mut ask all concerned to accept it as truly necessary in the vital interests of th e country.

It has been suggested that this gap should be closed by proscribing 
the I.R.A.	('PREM_15_1016', 'IMG_8589')
	It has been suggested that this gap should be closed by proscribing 
the I.R.A. in this country, a coursewhich has been pressed on me on general grounds from a variety of quarters. There has been similar pressure to take powers to proscribe Arab terrorist organisations.

THE IRA AND THEIR RECENT DECLARATIONS OF THEIR INTENTION TO CONTINUE AND EVEN ESCALATE THEIR CAMPAIGN HAVE MADE IT IMPOSSIBLE FOR HIM TO RESIST THE PRESSURES ON HIM FOR MORE DRASTI ACTION TO ARREST THE DETERIORATION OF MORALE AND THE UNDERMINING OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL STABILITY IN NORTHERN IRELAND.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	THE IRA AND THEIR RECENT DECLARATIONS OF THEIR INTENTION TO CONTINUE AND EVEN ESCALATE THEIR CAMPAIGN HAVE MADE IT IMPOSSIBLE FOR HIM TO RESIST THE PRESSURES ON HIM FOR MORE DRASTI ACTION TO ARREST THE DETERIORATION OF MORALE AND THE UNDERMINING OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL STABILITY IN NORTHERN IRELAND.

In view of the urgency of getting on with the new camp, MOD have areed to provide some huts from Army stocks for the civilian contractor to use for the first phase of the camp, but have made it clear to the Northern Ireland Government that later requirements for huts must be met from commerical sources.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6486')
	In view of the urgency of getting on with the new camp, MOD have areed to provide some huts from Army stocks for the civilian contractor to use for the first phase of the camp, but have made it clear to the Northern Ireland Government that later requirements for huts must be met from commerical sources.

of access to an advisory committee, which will hear representations for release and make recommendations to me.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_51')
	of access to an advisory committee, which will hear representations for release and make recommendations to me.

to sustain law and order in Northern Ireland and to protect both British troops and innocent civilians against ruthless and unscrupulous terrorism.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5232')
	to sustain law and order in Northern Ireland and to protect both British troops and innocent civilians against ruthless and unscrupulous terrorism.

If however the passer-by refuses to stop or to answer the questions he is committing an offence against the SPA Regulations and the soldier can arrest him under Regulation 11 of the SPA on that ground. 
HQ Northern Ireland Lisburn 
12 December 1972 strong case could be made for an Provisional IRA Volunteers, who, on the strength of reliable	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1808')
	If an answer is given which causes the soldier to suspect the person of falling into one of the categories in paragraph 7 above, he should arrest him under Regulation 11 of the SPA, remembering to use the appropriate formula from paragraph 6 of the Blue Card. If the answers given do not raise a sufficient suspicion to justify arrest he must be allowed to go on his way immediately. If however the passer-by refuses to stop or to answer the questions he is committing an offence against the SPA Regulations and the soldier can arrest him under Regulation 11 of the SPA on that ground.

But the Government wish to make clear at once that these measures will not in any way be directed against the holding of opinions, but against the use, or encouragement, of violence and terror to force those opinions on law abiding citizens.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8053')
	But the Government wish to make clear at once that these measures will not in any way be directed against the holding of opinions, but against the use, or encouragement, of violence and terror to force those opinions on law abiding citizens.

However, the Advisory Committee under Judge Brown has by now reviewed, at least once, the case against about threequarters of those interned; they should therefore have some idea of those who might qualify for release if the criteria wre altered somewhat. 20. The rate of processing cases for release under the present 
- when there	('PREM_15_1001', 'IMG_6716')
	However, the Advisory Committee under Judge Brown has by now reviewed, at least once, the case against about threequarters of those interned; they should therefore have some idea of those who might qualify for release if the criteria wre altered somewhat.

These operations are thus a necessary prelude to the restoration of greater harmony between the communities in Northern Ireland.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5864')
	These operations are thus a necessary prelude to the restoration of greater harmony between the communities in Northern Ireland.

10. It is therefore considered that it would be a prudent precaution to start work on a new camp as soon as possible: a. 
to ensure that a properly secure camp, with living 
conditions about which there would be no legitimate grounds for complaint, is available, if required, with the minimum of delay; b. 
to avoid aggravating Service accommodation problems.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2274')
	It is therefore considered that it would be a prudent precaution to start work on a new camp as soon as possible: a. 
to ensure that a properly secure camp, with living 
conditions about which there would be no legitimate grounds for complaint, is available,

article 15 recognises that this principle may have to be abrogated "in time of war or other public emergency threatening the life of the nation". The Ad hoo Conference presumably questions the moral right,	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4972')
	Imprisonment without trial was described as being "unjust" and 
"immoral". I am to observe that although article 5 of the Convention for the protection of Human Right and Fundamental Freedoms declares the principle that no one shall be deprived of his liberty unless convicted by a court of law, or for certain other limited reasons, article 15 recognises that this principle may have to be abrogated "in time of war or other public emergency threatening the life of the nation". The Ad hoo Conference presumably questions the moral right, or indeed the duty, of the Government of Northern Ireland to protect the community against armed terrorists by this means.

8. WE HAVE HOWEVER MADE CLEAR OUR VIEW THAT THE MEASURES 
TAKEN SHOULD NOT DISCRIMINATE AS BETWEEN THE DIFFERENT SECTIONS OF THE COMMUNITY, EXCEPT AS THE FACTS OF THE SITUATION MAKE INEVITABLE.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_195')
	WE HAVE HOWEVER MADE CLEAR OUR VIEW THAT THE MEASURES 
TAKEN SHOULD NOT DISCRIMINATE AS BETWEEN THE DIFFERENT SECTIONS OF THE COMMUNITY, EXCEPT AS THE FACTS OF THE SITUATION MAKE INEVITABLE.

Arrests 
- 342 men were arrested on August 9 in a highly successful 
operation in very difficult circumstances.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_5083')
	Arrests 
- 342 men were arrested on August 9 in a highly successful 
operation in very difficult circumstances. No force but the minimum necessary was used to achieve arrest. The men concerned were likely to resist arrest and many of them were likely to be armed; in these circumstances the army’s performance was highly creditable.

As a result of this, a defendant has now only to say his statement was taken under duress to enjoy a very good chance of having it disallowed - an example of the effectiveness of propaganda.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1925')
	Fundamentally the ALJ provides the IRA with a platform for spreading lies. It is a fact that IRA men have standing instructions that, after being in the hands of the security forces, they should make allegations of brutality. As a result of this, a defendant has now only to say his statement was taken under duress to enjoy a very good chance of having it disallowed - an example of the effectiveness of propaganda.

It will be necessary to keep a very close watch on whether the first releases are followed by any significant move towards reprisals against the Security Forces, especially the RUC Special Branch and the rest of the intelligence community, who will be extremely vulnerable at that stage.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6779')
	It will be necessary to keep a very close watch on whether the first releases are followed by any significant move towards reprisals against the Security Forces, especially the RUC Special Branch and the rest of the intelligence community, who will be extremely vulnerable at that stage.

consultation with Her Majesty’s Government, to exercise powers of detention and internment where necessary, the formal authority for the removal of certain individuals from the place specified in their detention orders to the interrogation centre was given by the Northern Ireland Minister of Home Affairs.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5131')
	consultation with Her Majesty’s Government, to exercise powers of detention and internment where necessary, the formal authority for the removal of certain individuals from the place specified in their detention orders to the interrogation centre was given by the Northern Ireland Minister of Home Affairs.

The Army authorities in Northern Ireland who were associated with the examination are satisfied that they could arrange for exercises, visiting, interrogation and medical services on an ad hoc basis for the comparatively short period while the MAIDSTONE would be used for this purpose.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2285')
	The Army authorities in Northern Ireland who were associated with the examination are satisfied that they could arrange for exercises, visiting, interrogation and medical services on an ad hoc basis for the comparatively short period while the MAIDSTONE would be used for this purpose.

Identities to be disclosed only to the Bench.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6754')
	CIVILIAN WITNESSES: 
- Witnesses who are members of the Security Forces or th - Would have the right if they so wished to giv 
evidence on affidavit only, and to be anonymous. Identities to be disclosed only to the Bench.

THAT IS WHY IT IS VITALLY IMPORTANT 
- IN WHATEVER TALK THERE IS ABOUT 
POLITICAL MOVES - TO MAKE IT CLEAR THAT IN NO SENSE WILL THE IRA BE ALLOWED TO WIN.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6926')
	THAT IS WHY IT IS VITALLY IMPORTANT 
- IN WHATEVER TALK THERE IS ABOUT 
POLITICAL MOVES - TO MAKE IT CLEAR THAT IN NO SENSE WILL THE IRA BE ALLOWED TO WIN. RESPONSIBLE POLITICAL INITIATIVES ARE OF NO INTEREST TO THE IRA:- WHAT THEY WANT IS SURRENDER.

In his speech introducing the motion Mr. Burns had called for internment and the use of firearms in controlling disturbances.	('PREM_15_474', 'IMG_5256')
	In his speech introducing the motion Mr. Burns had called for internment and the use of firearms in controlling disturbances.

THEN, AND ONLY THEN, CAN MEASURES FOR THE SAFETY OF THE PUBLIC BE RELAXED.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6926')
	THEN, AND ONLY THEN, CAN MEASURES FOR THE SAFETY OF THE PUBLIC BE RELAXED.

It will be open to any internee, and all have been informed of their 
rights, to put his case to the Committee, verbally or in writing, or by both means.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5591')
	It will be open to any internee, and all have been informed of their 
rights, to put his case to the Committee, verbally or in writing, or by both means. 
If he wishes to have legal advice in submitting a written case 
he may do so and the Government has arranged that financial arrangements similar to those available under the legal aid scheme will be applicable.

When the Internment Orders were signed no additional 
information was conveyed to the next of kin although the internees themselves were given a copy of the Interment Order.	('PREM_15_482', 'IMG_6169')
	When the Internment Orders were signed no additional 
information was conveyed to the next of kin although the internees themselves were given a copy of the Interment Order.

14. Over the last couple of year we have taken many steps to make it clear that we want (following word underlined) all the people of Northern Ireland to play a part in administering and developing the country. But neither changes in law nor changes in administrative structures can unite his community until we	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2165')
	Over the last couple of year we have taken many steps to make it clear that we want (following word underlined) all the people of Northern Ireland to play a part in administering and developing the country. But neither changes in law nor changes in administrative structures can unite his community until we

Membership of a review tribunal was raised.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2210')
	Membership of a review tribunal was raised.

It is conceivable that 
even to apprehend so small a percentage would nevertheless have some deterrent effect upon the remainder.	('PREM_15_476', 'IMG_5453')
	It is conceivable that 
even to apprehend so small a percentage would nevertheless have some deterrent effect upon the remainder.

The Committee’s main function will be to assess whether or when the internee’s release can be safely permitted, and much will depend on whether or not they can accept any undertaking on his part that he will not engage in violence on his release.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5591')
	The Committee’s main function will be to assess whether or when the internee’s release can be safely permitted, and much will depend on whether or not they can accept any undertaking on his part that he will not engage in violence on his release.

BY THE IRA AND THEIR RECENT DECLARATIONS OF THEIR INTENTION TO CONTINUE AND EVEN ESCALATE THAT CAMPAIGN HAVE MADE IT ESSENTIAL TO TAKE THIS ACTION HOWEVER ABHORRENT, IN ORDER TO PREVENT THE UNDERMINING OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL STABILITY IN NORTHERN IRELAND.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_176')
	BY THE IRA AND THEIR RECENT DECLARATIONS OF THEIR INTENTION TO CONTINUE AND EVEN ESCALATE THAT CAMPAIGN HAVE MADE IT ESSENTIAL TO TAKE THIS ACTION HOWEVER ABHORRENT, IN ORDER TO PREVENT THE UNDERMINING OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL STABILITY IN NORTHERN IRELAND.

Within two months, or sch other times as will be deemed reasonable, all internses not facing criminal charges should be released.	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6755')
	Within two months, or sch other times as will be deemed reasonable, all internses not facing criminal charges should be released.

My colleagus fully share my view that, even to secure some form of political or negotiating advantage, it would be quite wrong to take action which would be contrary to the clear security advice.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6955')
	I have received on this issue the clearest possible advice from the Army and Police, which is embodied in the attached Memorandum to the Cabinet here. My colleagus fully share my view that, even to secure some form of political or negotiating advantage, it would be quite wrong to take action which would be contrary to the clear security advice.

It would remain the firm policy of SF to make arrests only on good evidence likely to lead to prosecution or the signing of ICOs.	('DEFE_24_877', 'IMG_1512')
	It would remain the firm policy of SF to make arrests only on good evidence likely to lead to prosecution or the signing of ICOs.

The most promising possibility is to create a system 
of special courts whose function would not be to convict accused persons of criminal offences, but to judge whether they were guilty of certain specified conduct and commit them to "preventive detention" if they were.	('PREM_15_1011', 'IMG_7785')
	The most promising possibility is to create a system 
of special courts whose function would not be to convict accused persons of criminal offences, but to judge whether they were guilty of certain specified conduct and commit them to "preventive detention" if they were. The Act making this provision (as to the necessity of an Act see below) could be of 6 months duration renewable by Order in Council.

I will be making internment orders in respect of such of these men as constitute a serious and continuing threat to public order and safety.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2162')
	I will be making internment orders in respect of such of these men as constitute a serious and continuing threat to public order and safety.

2. 
detain will at the same time announce that all marches 
and parades are banned until further notice.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_198')
	will at the same time announce that all marches 
and parades are banned until further notice.

I HOPE THAT, IN THE LIGHT OF WHAT I HAVE SAID, 
YOU WILL BE ABLE TO REACT TO THEM WITH UNDERSTANDING, EVEN IF WITH REGRET. THERE WILL BE MANY WHO WILL CALL FOR VIOLENT ACTION IN RESPONSE TO THESE MEASURES: A REMINDER FROM YOU THAT VIOLENCE SERVES NO PURPOSE, AND THAT INTERNMENT IS AIMED AGAINST PARTICULAR INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE AVOWEDLY WORKING FOR A BREAKDOWN OF LAW AND /ORDER,	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_176')
	A REMINDER FROM YOU THAT VIOLENCE SERVES NO PURPOSE, AND THAT INTERNMENT IS AIMED AGAINST PARTICULAR INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE AVOWEDLY WORKING FOR A BREAKDOWN OF LAW AND /ORDER,

Thse reloea were a further indiation of the Governernt’s intention to hase out interjmaant.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7904')
	EWX hitelaw acid that in addition rto the 47 reased earlier this week he had ordered the release of another 18 internees today. Thse reloea were a further indiation of the Governernt’s intention to hase out interjmaant.

anyone known to be in the 
most senior ranks of the 
Provisional IRA,	('CJ_4_251', 'IMG_1759')
	anyone known to be in the 
most senior ranks of the 
Provisional IRA, even though there is no evidence to justify criminal proceedings;

Each would be accompanied by announcement 
of early release of low-risk internees and of progress in further releases dependent on de-escalation of violence.	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7219')
	Each would be accompanied by announcement 
of early release of low-risk internees and of progress in further releases dependent on de-escalation of violence.

The categories for this phasing out will be agreed by the Joint Security Committee,	('PREM_15_1005', 'IMG_7226')
	The categories for this phasing out will be agreed by the Joint Security Committee, which will be augmented by a United Kingdom Minister, who will be joint chairman of the Committee with the Northern Ireland Minister of Home Affairs; each of these joint chairmen will have a right of veto; 
The formal authority 
in connection with internment, whether for purposes of release or future internment, will continue to rest with the Northern Ireland Minister for Home Affairs; and the representative of the United Kingdom Government will be associated with him in the decisions on individual cases.

Ministers in the Northern Ireland Government favoured internment.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2219')
	Ministers in the Northern Ireland Government favoured internment.

T I"UIE 
’’VEFE TE FERCFIPLE, ELEClEC LEADERS OF MINCRITY CPINIONI’ TFEE CRITICPl ’EL 
A"’ C "CNTHS EEFCFE INTERNMENT 
EYEFCIED’C CF SEEI1"C TC EXERCISE IN THE COMMUNITY AN INFLUENCE FCF FESTFAINT?	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6925')
	V/ THE SITLATIC ’EFCFE 
C" THE CCN’TFAFY, IT VAS DETERICFATIING, DAY BY CAY AND WEEK PY VEEK. "’CT C’LN ’EE 
’E L.CSIG LES AND PROPERTY EUT ’ACST CAAI"’G C f ALL - VE VERE SHCVING SIGNE CF w LCSS CF 
CCF IP’CE /"’ / LC¶S CF I CPE. WHAT GCVERNMENT WITH A SHRED Cr RE-=C"I rIL ITY ’C Iis PLCPLE CCULD HAVE ALLCWEC THAT SITU/1 !C’ T CV.T I"UIE 
’’VEFE TE FERCFIPLE, ELEClEC LEADERS OF MINCRITY CPINIONI’ TFEE CRITICPl ’EL 
A"’ C "CNTHS EEFCFE INTERNMENT 
EYEFCIED’C CF SEEI1"C TC EXERCISE IN THE COMMUNITY AN INFLUENCE FCF FESTFAINT? VERE -TFY AmilSING THEIR SUPPCTERS TC FCA VITH CTHEF A GF:pO’C CAL ITICN AGAINST VICLENCE AND TERRCRISM? 
C" THE CCN!TFAFY: VHEf CFrEREC A MAJCF STEP IN THE CIRECTION OF PAR:TICIPATIC" A"C I "’\CLVEMENT, THEY SHIED AVAY LIKE A FR ICHTE"EC FCREE. THEY PCSITIVELY FELL CVER THEMSELVES TC CISEPGAGE FRCM THE DEMCCFATIC PROCESE. THEY DEL IBERATELY CREATEC A VACUUM, AND DID iCT CARE THAT IT WAS THE MEN VITH THE ELACF PEFETE AND THE SECRET PCMB IN THE NIGHT AHC WCUL FILL THAT VCIC.

The passage dealing with (a) is as follows :- 
"I have made no interment order without being satisfied on evidence placed before me that the person concerned was and still is an active member of the official or provisional ting of the IRA or has been closely implicated in the recent IRA campaign."	('PREM_15_1002', 'IMG_6842')
	"I have made no interment order without being satisfied on evidence placed before me that the person concerned was and still is an active member of the official or provisional ting of the IRA or has been closely implicated in the recent IRA campaign."

3. 
Information given by number two in the IRA in 
Armagh, who was arrested on 14 December - led to four shotguns being found near Portadown.	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6524')
	Information given by number two in the IRA in 
Armagh, who was arrested on 14 December - led to four shotguns being found near Portadown.

They were confident that if the internees were released on the ending of violence, violence would not be resumed.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7656')
	There would be no real peace unless the internees were finally released. They were confident that if the internees were released on the ending of violence, violence would not be resumed.

STATEMENT BY MR. FAULKNER 
Since 9th August persons have been detained under Orders made by me as Civil Authority under the Special Powers Act.	('PREM_15_480', 'IMG_5588')
	Since 9th August persons have been detained under Orders made by me as Civil Authority under the Special Powers Act. 
I have now made Orders interning 219 of these persons. Other detainees have been released 
on the direction of the Atto rney-General, or their cases are still under consideration.

He has, in fact, released every internee whose release the Committee has recommended.	('PREM_15_483', 'IMG_5959')
	The Prime Minister has emphasised to me that the Advisory Committee, on which an eminent English lawyer and a local businessman serve with Judge Brown, is able to review all cases, and that he has publicly stated that it would be quite extraordinary if he were not to accept this advice. He has, in fact, released every internee whose release the Committee has recommended.

43G Comd 8 Inf Bde 
- 
Comd 19 Airptbl Bde Comd 39 Airptbl Bde 
File ARRESTS References A. 2. 2. Internal Security Instruction 2/71 dated 6 Aug 71. 
you will be receiving,	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2181')
	you will be receiving, from an officer in the RUC, an authorisation in the form at Annex A. 
to make under Regulation 10

8. 
Any other course would it is felt carry with it It is difficult to visualize any solid advantages which might outweigh 
these security objections.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6968')
	Any other course would it is felt carry with it It is difficult to visualize any solid advantages which might outweigh 
these security objections.

POLITICAL SITUATION 8. 
agreed to a request from the GOC, Northern Ireland, to introduce an independent inquiry to investigate the evidence relevant to allegations made by those arrested under the Special Powers Act on 9th August 1971 about their treatment while in the custody of the security forces, prior to subsequent release, the serving of a detention order or the preferral of criminal charges.	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5837')
	agreed to a request from the GOC, Northern Ireland, to introduce an independent inquiry to investigate the evidence relevant to allegations made by those arrested under the Special Powers Act on 9th August 1971 about their treatment while in the custody of the security forces, prior to subsequent release, the serving of a detention order or the preferral of criminal charges.

He 
emphasised that the bombing, the murder and the withdrawal of the Opposition from Stormont had all taken place before internment had been introduced.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_144')
	The Home Secretary said that it was not that the 
role of the army had changed but that circumstances had changed in that the army found itself attacked by terrorists from Catholic areas. did not know or care about the affiliations of someone sniping at him. 
He 
emphasised that the bombing, the murder and the withdrawal of the Opposition from Stormont had all taken place before internment had been introduced.

Good tactical 
intelligence would not however be forthcoming unless the Security Forces were able to back their interrogation with the threat of some form of detention or internment.	('PREM_15_1010', 'IMG_79')
	Good tactical 
intelligence would not however be forthcoming unless the Security Forces were able to back their interrogation with the threat of some form of detention or internment.

Mr. Smith said that he favoured banning the Apprentice Boy’ March in The balance of argument was a difficult one but 
He had in mind the Londonderry on 12th August.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2220')
	Mr. Smith said that he favoured banning the Apprentice Boy’ March in The balance of argument was a difficult one but 
He had in mind the Londonderry on 12th August. 
he thought the best course was to ban the march, accompanying the ban with stern action to dealwith terrorism

His Excellency is advised that it has been increasingly effective in its original purpose of removing subversive organisations from areas in which they previously held sway, so that there now are areas in Belfast and elsewhere in which it is more tolerable to live because there are no longer organisations there to terrorise the people of those areas.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4973')
	His Excellency is advised that it has been increasingly effective in its original purpose of removing subversive organisations from areas in which they previously held sway, so that there now are areas in Belfast and elsewhere in which it is more tolerable to live because there are no longer organisations there to terrorise the people of those areas.

2. 
Other topics mentioned at the meeting this morning were:(a) The security situation. It was reported that the IRA are showing 
signs of suffering from attrition; and that the future policy of the Provisionals may be to concentrate on fewer, but larger, explosive attacks, while the Officials are more likely to concentrate	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6476')
	It was reported that the IRA are showing 
signs of suffering from attrition; and that the future policy of the Provisionals may be to concentrate on fewer, but larger, explosive attacks, while the Officials are more likely to concentrate

Clearly the effectiveness of interment in Northern Ireland could have been increased if you had felt able to take similar measures on your side of the border. But I judged from our Ambassador’s report of his recent talk with you that there was no prospect of that, and I could not therefore hold out this possibility as an 
inducment to Faulkner	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_199')
	Clearly the effectiveness of interment in Northern Ireland could have been increased if you had felt able to take similar measures on your side of the border. But I judged from our Ambassador’s report of his recent talk with you that there was no prospect of that, and I could not therefore hold out this possibility as an 
inducment to Faulkner

(4) 
As indicated in a separate memorandum, legislation is under consideration 
which would have the effect of putting the Special Powers Acts into suspense on termination of the present emergency. 
It may also be possible 
Stormont Castle 18 February 1972	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6968')
	As indicated in a separate memorandum, legislation is under consideration 
which would have the effect of putting the Special Powers Acts into suspense on termination of the present emergency. 
It may also be possible

When Mr. Faulkner came to London last week, he tolk 
us that he had come to the conclusion that internment was now the right and indeed inevitable course.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2192')
	he tolk 
us that he had come to the conclusion that internment was now the right and indeed inevitable course.

What he had in mind was that if it were possible to put two or three bad men inside as a result of investigations into their being suspected of murder or other terrorist crime he might at the same time make orders on another two or three Protestant extremists on the basis of information about their activities not necessarily related to specific criminal incidents.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1800')
	What he had in mind was that if it were possible to put two or three bad men inside as a result of investigations into their being suspected of murder or other terrorist crime he might at the same time make orders on another two or three Protestant extremists on the basis of information about their activities not necessarily related to specific criminal incidents.

THEY WERE AWARE OF THE IMPORTANCE OF OBTAINING OPERATIONAL INTELLIGENCE AND THEY KNEW THAT THE DETAINEES WERE LIABLE TO BE SUBJECTED TO A MEASURE OF FATIGUE, ISOLATION AND NOISE.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_2105')
	THEY WERE AWARE OF THE IMPORTANCE OF OBTAINING OPERATIONAL INTELLIGENCE AND THEY KNEW THAT THE DETAINEES WERE LIABLE TO BE SUBJECTED TO A MEASURE OF FATIGUE, ISOLATION AND NOISE.

There is the inevitable 
risk, indeed likelihood, that some members at least of his government, will be encouraged to press hard for internment on the first plausible pretext once they know that the physical arrangements are under study.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4855')
	There is the inevitable 
risk, indeed likelihood, that some members at least of his government, will be encouraged to press hard for internment on the first plausible pretext once they know that the physical arrangements are under study.

NORTHERN IRELAND OFFICE ARREST POLICY FOR PROTESTANTS Reference: A. 
1113 G dated 9th December 1972. 
1. At the meeting at Stormont Castle on 1lth December, the GOC tabled a paper on Arrest Policy for Protestants, proposing a form of words to be incorporated in the Army’s arrest instructions in the event of a decision to widen tho arrest policy in respect of Protestant terrorists.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1806')
	At the meeting at Stormont Castle on 1lth December, the GOC tabled a paper on Arrest Policy for Protestants, proposing a form of words to be incorporated in the Army’s arrest instructions in the event of a decision to widen tho arrest policy in respect of Protestant terrorists.

Paragraph 8 of the Annex to GEN 79(72) 19, however, envisages retaining for the time being those parts of the Act which confer powers on the security forces.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8109')
	Paragraph 8 of the Annex to GEN 79(72) 19, however, envisages retaining for the time being those parts of the Act which confer powers on the security forces. These are presumably those relating to stopping and searching, etc; but do they also include the powers of arrest without warrant?

Meantime, the Government reaffirms its determination to 
improve the security situation in Northern Ireland and to deal with terrorists, including those who, for the reasons indicated earlier, cannot easily be dealt with through the normal processes of the criminal law.	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8057')
	Meantime, the Government reaffirms its determination to 
improve the security situation in Northern Ireland and to deal with terrorists, including those who, for the reasons indicated earlier, cannot easily be dealt with through the normal processes of the criminal law. 
Pending the report of the commission and of 
the subsequent legislation on it, the Government therefore proposes at an early date to introduce interim legislation under the Special Powers Act to set up a special tribunal to deal with persons accused of terrorist activities by means of a procedure which will preserve the essentials of natural justice, but which will be matched to the special conditions which unfortunately obtain in Northern Ireland. 
This tribunal will be asked to 
consider cases referred to it by the Secretary of State (which will include cases of those presently in internment), to determine the nature of their involvement in terrorist activities, and either to order release or to impose a definite period of detention.

I appeal to you to come out and join us in building this community up again: not to restore it simply to what it was, for many of us in the past have failed each other, but to build it on better, sounder and stronger lines.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2165')
	I appeal to you to come out and join us in building this community up again: not to restore it simply to what it was, for many of us in the past have failed each other, but to build it on better, sounder and stronger lines. Unless you take the place in our community which awaits you, all of us will be the losers.

Political Impact in Northern Ireland 7. 
It seems essential that a decision to intern should be accompanied Internment would strengthen Mr. Faulkner’s position; but at some 
long-term cost.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_223')
	It seems essential that a decision to intern should be accompanied Internment would strengthen Mr. Faulkner’s position; but at some 
long-term cost.

The removal from circulation of 700 - 800 members of the 
two main organizations is creating increasing problems for them in terms both of morale and losses of key personnel.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6957')
	In spite of the continued bombings and shootings there is ample evidence 
that the effectiveness of the IRA,especially in the Belfast area where the security forces have recently concentrated their efforts, has been very seriously reduced. 
The removal from circulation of 700 - 800 members of the 
two main organizations is creating increasing problems for them in terms both of morale and losses of key personnel.

ANNEX A TO 1104 G ARREST POLICY 
1. The Special Powers Act, and Regulations made under it, has not been repealed, but the post-ceasefire situation demands that the powers of arrest under Regulation 10 and 11 are not used.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1892')
	The Special Powers Act, and Regulations made under it, has not been repealed, but the post-ceasefire situation demands that the powers of arrest under Regulation 10 and 11 are not used.

John Trend, GCB, CVO would be for it."	('PREM_15_1000', 'IMG_6566')
	would be for it."

b. 
To continue the attrition of the IRA’s will and capacity to continue 
To protect and be seen to protect sections of the community who are, or who believe themselves to be, threatened.	('PREM_15_1689', 'IMG_160')
	"In closest co-operation with the RUC, the Army in Northern Ireland is progressively to diminish the ability of extremist organisations and their followers to influence political events or to terrorise any section of the population." 
CLF gave the three brigades the following tasks in order of priority: a. 
their campaign. b. 
To continue the attrition of the IRA’s will and capacity to continue

As you know, and as paragraph 10(4) of my Memorandum points out, I am attracted to the idea of introducing at an early date a form of legislation to replace the Special Powers, which would come into effect on an appointed day after violence had ended, and would inter alia then place the power of internment in suspense, to be subsequently invoked only on the declaration of a State of Emergency.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6955')
	As you know, and as paragraph 10(4) of my Memorandum points out, I am attracted to the idea of introducing at an early date a form of legislation to replace the Special Powers, which would come into effect on an appointed day after violence had ended, and would inter alia then place the power of internment in suspense, to be subsequently invoked only on the declaration of a State of Emergency.

"Neither will be possible in a climate of terrorism and violence.	('PREM_15_485', 'IMG_5162')
	Neither will be possible in a climate of terrorism and violence.

They asked "those engaged in the campaign of 
violence to cease immediately in order to enable us to bring internment to a speedy end" and for "an immediate cessation of political arrests and offensive activity by the British Army and the RUC". 
favour of the Northern Ireland (Temporary Provisions) Bill at Westminster on 28 March.	('PREM_15_1006', 'IMG_7345')
	They asked "those engaged in the campaign of 
violence to cease immediately in order to enable us to bring internment to a speedy end" and for "an immediate cessation of political arrests and offensive activity by the British Army and the RUC".

that security grounds rule out any releases other than through the machinery of the Advisory Committee.	('PREM_15_1003', 'IMG_6968')
	that security grounds rule out any releases other than through the machinery of the Advisory Committee.

But what if political pressure causes him to change his mind?	('PREM_15_476', 'IMG_5453')
	But what if political pressure causes him to change his mind?

This Operation could be regarded as being completed by the end of November but there would be no let up in the Army’s arrest policy and intelligence effort.	('DEFE_24_606', 'IMG_2424')
	This Operation could be regarded as being completed by the end of November but there would be no let up in the Army’s arrest policy and intelligence effort.

INSTRUCTIONS HAVE BEEN ISSUED TO THE GENERAL OFFICER COMMANDING RE-EMPHASISING THAT WHILE THE ARMY IS EMPOWERED AND MAY BE REQUIRED TO ARREST PERSONS UNDER CERTAIN REGULATIONS OF THE SPECIAL POWERS ACTS, AND TO HAND THEM OVER TO THE CIVIL AUTHORITY, THE SUBSEQUENT DETENTION, INTERNMENT, OR INTERROGATION OF SUCH PERSONS ARE MATTERS SOLELY FOR THE CIVIL AUTHORITY.	('DEFE_13_919', 'IMG_2104')
	INSTRUCTIONS HAVE BEEN ISSUED TO THE GENERAL OFFICER COMMANDING RE-EMPHASISING THAT WHILE THE ARMY IS EMPOWERED AND MAY BE REQUIRED TO ARREST PERSONS UNDER CERTAIN REGULATIONS OF THE SPECIAL POWERS ACTS, AND TO HAND THEM OVER TO THE CIVIL AUTHORITY, THE SUBSEQUENT DETENTION, INTERNMENT, OR INTERROGATION OF SUCH PERSONS ARE MATTERS SOLELY FOR THE CIVIL AUTHORITY.

We are acting not to suppress freedom, but to allow the overwhelming mass of our people to enjoy freedom including freedom from fear of the gunman, of the nightly explosion, of fire-raising, of kangaroo courts and all the apparatus of terrorism.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2165')
	The action we have now taken does not indicate any policy of repression. We are acting not to suppress freedom, but to allow the overwhelming mass of our people to enjoy freedom

2. 
will at the same time announce that all marches 
and parades are banned until further notice.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_189')
	will at the same time announce that all marches 
and parades are banned until further notice.

These letters were particularly useful especially to the branch compiling the-Order of Battle and Irish Republican Army list.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2146')
	The most important sources of formation were the secret posts, which as they were not interrupted were believed by the internes to be perfectly secure. These letters were particularly useful especially to the branch compiling the-Order of Battle and Irish Republican Army list.

MOREOVER, THE PRIME MINISTER. HIMSELF HAD EXPLAINED TO THE POPE OUR DIFFICULTIES ABOUT INTERNMENT	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9335')
	THIS WAS SOMEWHAT UNEXPECTED AS PARAGRAPHS 58 TO 60 OF THE WHITE PAPER DEALT WITH THIS POINT AND WE HAD SENT THE VATICAN THE TEXT OF MR WHITELAW’S STATEMENT MADE IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS ON 20 DECEMBER LAST ON THE REPORT OF THE DIPLOCK COMMISSION. WE HAD ALSO SENT THE TEXT OF THE PRIME MINISTER’S SIMILAR STATEMENT ON 28 MARCH WHICH AGAIN DEALS WITH INTERNMENT. MOREOVER, THE PRIME MINISTER. HIMSELF HAD EXPLAINED TO THE POPE OUR DIFFICULTIES ABOUT INTERNMENT

(iv) 
that cases involving physical ill-treatment or brutality should be so disposed of as not to prejudice our position in contesting the admissibility of the Republic’s case at Strasbourg 
- as might happen if it could be represented that redress was not available in the domestic courts; (v) 
that there should not at present be any question of a statutory indemnity for members of the security forces.	('PREM_15_1009', 'IMG_7697')
	that there should not at present be any question of a statutory indemnity for members of the security forces.

He expressed the view that, with the continued phasing out of internment, the SDLP could claim to have got something out of their talks with him.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7902')
	He expressed the view that, with the continued phasing out of internment, the SDLP could claim to have got something out of their talks with him.

(c) In favour of the proposal to introduce special courts or tribunals (which is also discussed in Appendix 1 to GEN 79(72) 17) it can be argued that we should in principle be substituting a judicial process for the executive machinery which at present governs internment and detention. But it will undoubtedly be politically controversial to introduce judicial processes different from those of the normal courts (although the Secretary of State deploys the counter arguments in paragraph 5 of the Annex to GEN 79(72) 19); and the Attorney General, who may well be	('PREM_15_1013', 'IMG_8108')
	In favour of the proposal to introduce special courts or tribunals (which is also discussed in Appendix 1 to GEN 79(72) 17) it can be argued that we should in principle be substituting a judicial process for the executive machinery which at present governs internment and detention. But it will undoubtedly be politically controversial to introduce judicial processes different from those of the normal courts (although the Secretary of State deploys the counter arguments in paragraph 5 of the Annex to GEN 79(72) 19); and the Attorney General, who may well be

The Secretary of tate said thatthia queetion of timing was eonstantly under review 
d was a matter for HM to deide.	('PREM_15_1012', 'IMG_7904')
	The Secretary of tate said thatthia queetion of timing was eonstantly under review 
d was a matter for HM to deide.

to hold his hand.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_201')
	to hold his hand.

FU^THE".ORE, THE PROLE VAS THEN O DE O:ISTRABLY ONE OF DOMESTIC AFFAIR, (ARTICLE 2(7) OF THE CHARTER) THAT MOST OF THE MORE LEGAL!	('PREM_15_479', 'IMG_5852')
	FU^THE".ORE, THE PROLE VAS THEN O DE O:ISTRABLY ONE OF DOMESTIC AFFAIR, (ARTICLE 2(7) OF THE CHARTER) THAT MOST OF THE MORE LEGAL! IC .ElGERS WERE READY TO BE COiV I CED BY OUR ARGUMEIITS.

The outrages to which we have been subjected now threaten our economic life and create every day deeper divisions and antagonism within our community.	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2162')
	Neither will be possible in a climate of terrorism and 
violence. The outrages to which we have been subjected now threaten our economic life and create every day deeper divisions and antagonism within our community.

This can be construed to mean broadly that the Judge considered the treatment established 
by the Compton Report by itself to constitute assault as justifying the portion of the £300 damages which was not attributable to wrongful arrest and imprisonment.	('PREM_15_475', 'IMG_4931')
	This can be construed to mean broadly that the Judge considered the treatment established 
by the Compton Report by itself to constitute assault as justifying the portion of the £300 damages which was not attributable to wrongful arrest and imprisonment.

be brought before the courts and the powers of arrest relate to any person whom the arresting officer "suspects of acting or of having acted or being about to act in a manner prejudicial to the preservation of the peace or the maintenace of order" and so on.	('CJ_4_458', 'IMG_1871')
	When we redrafted the main policy document, our main object was to preserve the powers of arrest under Regulation 11(1); these powers contemplate that persons so arrested could, in certain circumstances, be brought before the courts and the powers of arrest relate to any person whom the arresting officer "suspects of acting or of having acted or being about to act in a manner prejudicial to the preservation of the peace or the maintenace of order" and so on.

IN PURELY MILITARY TERMS, SEEKING TO CONTAIN THIS DETERIORATING SITUATION BY THE MEANS EMPLOYED HITHERTO WOULD HAVE MEANT AT BEST A LONG HAUL.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_180')
	IN PURELY MILITARY TERMS, SEEKING TO CONTAIN THIS DETERIORATING SITUATION BY THE MEANS EMPLOYED HITHERTO WOULD HAVE MEANT AT BEST A LONG HAUL.

COULD TAKE UP MR FAULKNER’S APPEAL TO THE CATHOLICS (FINAL PARAGRAPH OF HIS STATEMENT OF 9 AUGUST) BY STATING VERY CLEARLY THAT INTERNMENT IS ONLY A MEANS TO AN END AND THAT THIS END IS THE RAPID CREATION OF A SOCIETY FROM WHICH DISCRIMINATION AND INJUSTICE HAD BEEN ELIMINATED.	('PREM_15_478', 'IMG_169')
	I CANNOT OF COURSE COMMENT ON THE EFFECT IN THE NORTH, BUT I AM SURE IT WOULD HAVE A STEADYING EFFECT IN THE SOUTH IF, IN ADDITION TO THE DETAILS SUGGESTED IN MY TEL NO 302, H.M.G. COULD TAKE UP MR FAULKNER’S APPEAL TO THE CATHOLICS (FINAL PARAGRAPH OF HIS STATEMENT OF 9 AUGUST) BY STATING VERY CLEARLY THAT INTERNMENT IS ONLY A MEANS TO AN END AND THAT THIS END IS THE RAPID CREATION OF A SOCIETY FROM WHICH DISCRIMINATION AND INJUSTICE HAD BEEN ELIMINATED.

3. While the Commission was deliberating, the 
Government proposed, and Parliament in Westminster approved, the abolition of internment by the Executive as it had been practised 
Northern 
Ireland law, and the enactment, as an interim measure pending the Commission’s Report, procedures for detention. 
4. 
Specific safeguards were incorporated, which have been in operation since 7 November 1972, as follows:	('PREM_15_1692', 'IMG_9320')
	While the Commission was deliberating, the 
Government proposed, and Parliament in Westminster approved, the abolition of internment by the Executive as it had been practised 
Northern 
Ireland law, and the enactment, as an interim measure pending the Commission’s Report, procedures for detention. 
4. 
Specific safeguards were incorporated, which have been in operation since 7 November 1972, as follows

of cDS5 T 
1 :You ITRELAND .	('DEFE_24_1214', 'IMG_2281')
	You ITRELAND .A’- INT R1iE.NT uill know that considertion has been given to the need to 
tighten up security arrangements in Torthern Ireland and, in piticuilar, to the possibility of introducing internment under the Spcal.Powers Act.

