An Imposed Solution
25,

Implementing this contingency plan would have demonstrated the

reserves of power at the Government's disposal but would also have
exposed the limits of what the government can hope to achieve through force
alone.

Unless the Government were prepared to be completely ruthless

in the use of force, the chances of imposing a settlement consisting of
a new partition together with some compulsory transfers of population

would be negligible.

But even if they were prepared to use whatever

force might be necessary, there seems, as we indicate more fully in
Annex D, no prospect that such a settlement could be permanent.

The

initial shock of seeing the Army taking active measures against
Protestant extremists would have increased the Protestant community's
uncertainty about the Government's intentions towards them.

The further

partition would have encouraged the fear that more losses were on the way.

For their part the Catholics would not accept transfers of population
and could be expected to get support from the Republic in resisting any
attempt to carry out such transfers by force.

It would in any case be

impossible to make permanent a new population structure based on
religion alone, if only because of the provision in the Treaty of Rome
for free movement.

Moreover,

if it became an object of policy to set

up what would be in effect an avowedly sectarian "statelet",

the position

of any Catholics remaining in it, for example in Belfast, would be likely
to prove worse than before.

Consolidatinn of population within the city

itself would be likely to create a permanent Catholic armed camp.

The

idea of re-partition would be totally unacceptable to the Republic.
Apart from this we do not believe that Mr. Lynch would be prepared to
co-operate with the general plan under consideration even if he were

consulted beforehand or forewarned of a decision to implement it.

If

he were merely presented with a fait accompli, he would be almost certain
to condemn it immediately.

If,

as seems likely,

implementation of the

plan provoked riots and demonstrations in the North and the arrival of
Catholic refugees in the South,

it would be virtually impossible for

