THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND NORTHERN IRELAND ASSEMBLY ELECTIONS
Introduction
1.
SSNI has decided that the Local Government Elections (LGE) are to be held
on 30 May and the Northern Ireland Assembly Elections (NIAE) on 28 Jun.
2.
Some preliminary planning with the RUC and Electoral Officers has taken
place.
Bdes have been invited to assess the forces required within their
areas over the period of the LGE and forward their assessments by 30 Apr. Their
assessments for the NIAE will follow later.
Aim

3.

The aim of this paper is to consider the security implications of both the
LGE and NIAE and to make a preliminary estimate of reinforcements required.
The Elections
There are a number of significant differences between the
General.
4.
Border Poll and the two forthcoming elections.
The Border Poll was a plebiscite requiring either an affirmative
a.
or a negative vote on a single, highly emotive issue; the LGE and NIAE
will be contests to elect representatives from candidates of a number of
opposing parties, representing a wide range of policies.
b.
The Border Poll was based on the 12 Westminster Parliamentary
Constituencies; the LGE will be based on the 26 MacRory Districts;
the NIAE, although based on the 12 Westminster Parliamentary Constituencies,
will elect 78 member, about the same number (Commons and Senate together)
as the old Stormont Parliament.
c.

The LGE and NIAE will be the first major electoral contest since:

(1) The General Election and the beginning of the current troubles in
1969; there has been no opportunity for the changing political pattern
-

to be reflected at the polls since then.
(2) The introduction of the one-man-one-vote franchise for LGE and
the first since the lowering of the voting age to 18.
(3)
The 1920s to be held under the Single Transferable Vote (STV)
system of Proportional Representation (PR), which has been a highly
emotive issue, particularly for Protestants.

5.

LGE.
Candidates have been granted free postal facilities and Nomination
Day will be in mid-May.
Postal voting f :cilities will be available as for the
Poll.
border
There will be some 600 pollin. stations throughout the Province;
the increase of some 2 00 over the Border Poll polling stations will be primarily
in rural areas, not Belfh.
Polling hours will be from 0800 to 2000 hours.
Counting of votes will te place at one location per District, but possibly at
up to 6 in Belfast.
One elected, the Councils will come into operation on
a Oct 73.
The functions of the District Councils will not be wide-ranging and
therefore the policy issues directly at stake in the LGE will not be as great
was in the NIAE.
This suggests that, in so far as the contentiousness of the

elections may generate security difficulties, the NIAE will be a greater problem
than the LGE.

