support for moderate politicians, there is a danger that the more extreme
elements of the UDA will become disenchanted with political activities
and resort once more to direct, violent action.
In any event, a continued
level of violence and lawlessness by some Protestant extremists. particularly
UVF and VSC, can be expected.

10.

Attitudes of RC Community.
a.
Moderates.
The community is undoubtedly tired of violence, generally
prepared to accept the provisions of the White Paper and likely to take
p..rt in the elections.
However, the community remains susceptible to
intimidation and has not yet demonstrated its ability to control its younger,
more volatile members.
There is
possibility, considered at present to
be remote, that some groups might boycott the elections if a significant
movement demanding the release of detainees and "political" prisoners and
the removal of the Army from RC areas should develop.
b.

Extremists.
(1) The PIRA has declared its intention, and continues to demonstrate
its ability to maintain its campaign of violence; there is good evidence
that the PIRA continues to be supplied with high quality, modern weapons.
There are encouraging signs, however, that the leadership is facing
internal difficulties and that the SF's rate of attrition is having
a serious effect on morale and quality. It is currently believed that
the Provisional Sinn Fein will not participate in the eleotions, although
there remains the possibility of a change of heart.
(2) The OIRA is clearly determined to contest the elections in another
guise. However, although it professes that its ceasefire policy will be
maintained, increasing evidence of the local involvement of OIRA members
in terrorism continues. Should its support at the LGE prove to be

minimal, the possibility of renewed, officially-sponsored violence
cannot be discounted. The OIRA, too, is well equipped with weapons,
ammunition and explosives.

11. Non-Sectarian Attitudes. The major non-sectarian political groups are likely
to contest the elections, though their support may be hampered by lack of funds.
It is impossible to assess the extent of support for the Alliance Party for whom
the LGE will be its first electoral contest.
The participation of non-sectarian
centre groups like Alliance and NILP may, by diverting attention from the Loyalist
versus Republican issue, reduce the likelihood that extremists will intimidate
voters or mount a planned campaign to disrupt the poll. The use of PR, and the
consequent importance of voters' second and third preferences, may also help to
limit intimidation of voters (in so far as intimidation is based on rational
calculations).
12.

Summary.
a.
With the Exception of VUPP, in the case of LGE, and the Provisional Sinn Fein
in both cases, the elections are unlikely to be boycotted by any significant
political group, though some of the smaller ones may reserve their efforts for
the NIAE.
b.
Except for the PIRA which can be expected to attempt to interfere with
the conduct of the elections wherever it can, there is unlikely to be a
concerted campaign of disruption.
c.
The participation of a range of parties, and the presence in polling
stations of agents from those parties, will tend to reduce the likelihood
of armed attack on polling stations (except possibly by the PIRA).

