one group appear arrogant and appear to be taunting the
other side. Is it possible for you to get that across
to the Army?

-

PRIME MINISTER
The Home Secretary did discuss this with Dr. Hillery
quite rightly and told him that the Army had got the
firmest and strictest instructions, that they should be
absolutely impartial to all. The situation is again, as
the Home Secretary has pointed out, that when the Army
is being shot at they do not know or enquire as to who
the person shooting at them is. They are being shot at
and their job, they have been told very firmly is to
protect the community. What religious faith those people
have is not of concern to them and they do not know.
When one watches television and sees the stone-throwing
and the bottles and the bombs and so on ... well, now,
this is happening in the Catholic quarters. Alas, we
all deplore it. The same thing applies to the refugees
if it were not for a lot of the pressure which is being
brought by the I.R.A. in the Catholic communities often
deliberately to get them out of Northern Ireland then your
refugee camps would not be full. What we are most anxious
to do (and we have been discussing it again today), is
to ensure that these unfortunate people who are affected
in these areas are given immediate help in Northern
Ireland itself. We will be talking further with the
Northern Ireland Government as to how this can be brought
about.
MR. LYNCH

I fear the pips came in there Just at the start
of that sentence.
PRIME MINISTER
I said that we shall be discussing with the Northern
Ireland Government further measures as to how this can
be brought about - to help those who are suffering from
their houses being destroyed or burned by the agitators
in these areas.
e are most anxious to help in this
respect.
MR. LYNCH
There is one incident now - talking about that - in
which a refugee came south saying that the British Army
were looking after him up to a certain time but eventually
within ten minutes of their leaving on one occasion about
60 armed and masked men came around and ordered him to
get out or else. So he had to get out.

