PRIME MINISTER
When would you be doing this?
MR. LYNCH
Well it may well be soon. I have some members of the
Government in the Council Room downstairs. We are just
reconsidering the situation. The Press are in hordes
around the place here so I might just as well have a
considered statement on the general position.
PRIME MINISTER
Would they be expecting you to make a statement at
the end of your Council Meeting this afternoon?
MR. LYNCH
They certainly will be because we had a meeting this
morning and in the absence of hearing anything from your
side we adjourned and resumed again a short while ago.
The Press know that because they told me this this evening.
They were looking for a statement and they were told
that the meeting was only adjourned and would resume in
the afternoon so some have gathered already and in another
half-an-hour there will be many more there . So I would
have to make some form of statement and possibly answer
some questions. So, then it may be - I just can't
continue just saying nothing. But as I said I may,
without mentioning specifically the Commission. I am not
sure that I will. Even if I did go that far, as I have
indicated already I would not involve you in acquiescence
or even in knowledge of it.
I would be asked of course what Hillery said to
Mr. Maudling yesterday. I would have to say of course
that is a different matter altogether. We meant to find
out what the attitude of the British Government was and
I can't give any details of that conversation.
PRIME MINISTER
Well, that is the line we have taken here as well.
We have held that quite firmly.
MR. LYNCH
Another thing is that there is a very strong feeling
(we are having these refugees coming over in thousands
at the moment - we are having difficulty in accommodating
them in fact) that the Army up there are not being
completely impartial - in other words they are taking
action against one side and they are letting the Ulster
Unionists roam around at will with stones and with their
taunting attitudes. Again, without telling you your
business I think the Army ought to be told of their true
role. I think that everybody, more or less, can make

